=== PDF page 1 ===
GCSE
FRENCH
(8652)
Specification
For teaching from September 2024 onwards
For GCSE exams in 2026 onwards
Version 1.2 August 2026


=== PDF page 2 ===


=== PDF page 3 ===
Contents
1 Introduction 5
1.1 Why choose AQA for GCSE French? 5
1.2 Support and resources to help you teach 5
2 Specification at a glance 7
2.1 Subject content 7
2.2 Assessments 7
3 Subject content 11
3.1 Themes 11
3.2 Grammar 11
3.3 Vocabulary 20
4 Scheme of assessment 23
4.1 Aims and learning outcomes 23
4.2 Assessment objectives 24
4.3 Assessment weightings 25
4.4 Paper 1: Listening 25
4.5 Paper 2: Speaking 27
4.6 Paper 3: Reading 29
4.7 Paper 4: Writing 30
4.8 Assessment criteria 32
5 General administration 55
5.1 Entries and codes 55
5.2 Overlaps with other qualifications 55
5.3 Awarding grades and reporting results 55
5.4 Resits and shelf life 56
5.5 Previous learning and prerequisites 56
5.6 Access to assessment: diversity and inclusion 56
5.7 Working with AQA for the first time 57
5.8 Private candidates 57
6 Appendix 1: Sound symbol
correspondences (SSCs) 59
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-t o-date specification, resources, support and administration   3
   Appendix 2: Vocabulary lists
61Foundation and Higher Tiers

=== PDF page 4 ===
Are you using the latest version of this specification?
• You will always find the most up-to-date version of this specification on our website at
aqa.org.uk/8652
• We will write to you if there are significant changes to the specification.
4   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 5 ===
1 Introduction
1.1 Why choose AQA for GCSE French?
1.1.1 A specification designed for you and your students
We’ve worked with a wide range of teachers, assessment experts and languages associations to
create this specification. We want to make sure it offers your students the opportunity to develop
their French language skills to their full potential, equipping them with knowledge and confidence
they can use both in and outside of the classroom.
We have focused on ensuring that our assessments are clear, accessible and discriminate
effectively, and that our content is engaging and relevant.
1.1.2 Languages beyond the classroom
We want to provide a specification that you can enjoy teaching while delivering the assessments
and results you and your students deserve.
The importance of attracting students of all abilities to languages has been a high priority as we’ve
designed our content, and we believe our approach will help you inspire and engage your students.
We know that the culture of the wider French-speaking world is one of the aspects of language-
learning which excites students and brings the subject alive and it was important to us that this was
clearly represented. This is why we’ve designed a specification that can help build your students'
cultural knowledge alongside their language skills.
1.1.3 Supporting your teaching
We know assessment and we are here to answer your questions and always provide up-to-date,
expert advice. We’re here to support you throughout the year, helping you prepare for each exam
season.
Our network is the largest of any exam board. From day one, you’ll be surrounded by experts and
enthusiastic people with the same goal – helping students to get the results they deserve. Be it
having questions answered, facilitating conversation or mutual support, our community is second
to none.
You can find out about all our French qualifications at aqa.org.uk/french
1.2 Support and resources to help you teach
We’ve worked with experienced teachers to provide you with a range of resources that will help
you confidently plan, teach and prepare for exams.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   5

=== PDF page 6 ===
1.2.1 Teaching resources
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 to see all our teaching resources. They include:
• sample schemes of work to help you plan for course delivery
• resources to support teaching of grammar, phonics and to prepare your students for
assessment
• textbooks and digital resources endorsed by AQA
• training courses to help you deliver AQA French qualifications
• subject expertise courses for all teachers, from early career teachers who are just getting
started to experienced teachers looking for fresh inspiration.
Preparing for exams
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for everything you need to prepare for our exams, including:
• past papers, mark schemes and examiner reports
• Exampro: a searchable bank of past AQA exam questions
• example learner answers with examiner commentaries.
Analyse your learners' results with Data Insights
We’ve replaced Enhanced Results Analysis (ERA) with a new platform – Data Insights. It does the
same things as ERA and more.
Find out which questions were the most challenging, how the results compare to previous years
and where your learners need to improve. Data Insights, our free online results analysis tool, will
help you see where to focus your teaching. Find out more at aqa.org.uk/data-insights
For information about results, including maintaining standards over time, grade boundaries and our
post-results services, visit aqa.org.uk/results
Keep your skills up-to-date with professional development
Time in the classroom is precious, but we understand that as your career develops, the skills and
knowledge you need may change. As well as subject-specific training, we offer a range of courses
to help boost your skills.
Our events calendar is full of different ways for you to learn, understand and be inspired. Find out
more at aqa.org.uk/professional-development.
Help and support
Visit our website for information, guidance, support and resources at aqa.org.uk/8652
If you'd like us to share news and information about this qualification, sign up for emails and
updates at aqa.org.uk/keepinformed
Alternatively, you can call or email our subject team direct.
E: mfl@aqa.org.uk
T: 01423 534 381
6   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 7 ===
2 Specification at a glance
This qualification is linear. Linear means that students will sit all their exams at the end of the
course.
2.1 Subject content
Assessment is set in the context of these three themes.
• Theme 1: People and lifestyle
• Theme 2: Popular culture
• Theme 3: Communication and the world around us
2.2 Assessments
GCSE French has a Foundation tier (grades 1–5) and a Higher tier (grades 4–9). Students must
take all four question papers at the same tier. All question papers must be taken in the same
series.
Paper 1: Listening
What's assessed
• Understanding and responding to spoken extracts comprising the defined vocabulary and
grammar for each tier
• Dictation of short, spoken extracts
How it's assessed
• Written exam: 35 minutes (Foundation tier), 45 minutes (Higher tier)
• 40 marks (Foundation tier), 50 marks (Higher tier)
• 25% of GCSE
Recording controlled by the invigilator with built-in repetitions and pauses.
Each exam includes 5 minutes’ reading time at the start of the question paper before the listening
material is played and 2 minutes at the end of the recording for students to check their work.
Questions
• Section A – listening comprehension questions in English, to be answered in English or
non-verbally (32 marks at Foundation tier and 40 marks at Higher tier)
• Section B – dictation where students transcribe short sentences, including a small number
of words from outside the prescribed vocabulary list (8 marks at Foundation tier and 10
marks at Higher tier)
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   7

=== PDF page 8 ===
Paper 2: Speaking
What's assessed
• Speaking using clear and comprehensible language to undertake a Role-play
• Carry out a Reading aloud task
• Talk about visual stimuli
How it's assessed
• Non-exam assessment (NEA)
• 7–9 minutes (Foundation tier) + 15 minutes' supervised preparation time
• 10–12 minutes (Higher tier) + 15 minutes' supervised preparation time
• 50 marks (for each of Foundation tier and Higher tier)
• 25% of GCSE
Questions
The format is the same at Foundation tier and Higher tier, but with different stimulus materials for
the Role-play and the Reading aloud task. For the Photo card task, the same photos are used at
both tiers.
• Role-play – 10 marks (recommended to last between 1 and 1.5 minutes at both tiers)
• Reading aloud task and short conversation – 15 marks (recommended to last in total
between 2 and 2.5 minutes at Foundation tier and between 3 and 3.5 minutes at Higher
tier)
• Reading aloud task: minimum 35 words of text at Foundation tier and 50 words at Higher
tier
• Short unprepared conversation
• Photo card discussion – 25 marks (recommended to last between 4 and 5 minutes in total
at Foundation tier, and between 6 and 7 minutes in total at Higher tier)
• Response to the content of the photos on the card (recommended to last approximately
1 minute at Foundation tier and approximately 1.5 minutes at Higher tier)
• Unprepared conversation (recommended to last between 3 and 4 minutes at Foundation
tier and between 4.5 and 5.5 minutes at Higher tier)
8   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 9 ===
Paper 3: Reading
What's assessed
• Understanding and responding to written texts which focus predominantly on the
vocabulary and grammar at each tier
• Inferring plausible meanings of single words when they are embedded in written sentences
• Translating from French into English
How it's assessed
• Written exam: 45 minutes (Foundation tier), 1 hour (Higher tier)
• 50 marks (for each of Foundation tier and Higher tier)
• 25% of GCSE
Questions
• Section A – reading comprehension questions in English, to be answered in English or non-
verbally (40 marks)
• Section B – translation from French into English, minimum of 35 words at Foundation tier
and 50 words at Higher tier (10 marks)
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   9

=== PDF page 10 ===
Paper 4: Writing
What's assessed
• Writing text in the language in a lexically and grammatically accurate way in response to
simple and familiar stimuli
• Translating from English into French
How it's assessed
• Written exam: 1 hour 10 minutes (Foundation tier), 1 hour 15 minutes (Higher tier)
• 50 marks (for each of Foundation tier and Higher tier)
• 25% of GCSE
Questions
Foundation tier
• Question 1 – student produces five short sentences in response to a photo (10 marks)
• Question 2 – student produces a short piece of writing in response to five compulsory bullet
points, approximately 50 words in total (10 marks)
• Question 3 – student completes five short grammar tasks (5 marks)
• Question 4 – translation of sentences from English into French, minimum 35 words in total
(10 marks)
• Question 5 (overlap question) – student produces a piece of writing in response to three
compulsory bullet points, approximately 90 words in total. There is a choice from two
questions (15 marks)
Higher tier
• Question 1 – translation of sentences from English into French, minimum 50 words in total
(10 marks)
• Question 2 (overlap question) – student produces a piece of writing in response to three
compulsory bullet points, approximately 90 words in total. There is a choice from two
questions (15 marks)
• Question 3 – open-ended writing task (student responds to two bullets, producing
approximately 150 words in total). There is a choice from two questions (25 marks)
10   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 11 ===
3 Subject content
3.1 Themes
The specification covers three distinct themes. These themes apply to all four question papers.
Passages in the Listening and Reading assessments will be set in the context of the target
language countries and communities. In the Speaking and Writing assessments, students will be
able to respond according to their own interests and experiences.
The texts and tasks set for the assessments will be based on the prescribed vocabulary list in
Appendix 2 and the prescribed grammar in Section 3.2.
It is not intended that the themes and topics will be specifically referenced in all assessment tasks.
Students will be expected to use the prescribed vocabulary and grammar across a range of
contexts and assessment tasks.
3.1.1 Theme 1: People and lifestyle
Theme 1 covers the following three topics:
• Topic 1: Identity and relationships with others
• Topic 2: Healthy living and lifestyle
• Topic 3: Education and work
3.1.2 Theme 2: Popular culture
Theme 2 covers the following three topics:
• Topic 1: Free-time activities
• Topic 2: Customs, festivals and celebrations
• Topic 3: Celebrity culture
3.1.3 Theme 3: Communication and the world around us
Theme 3 covers the following three topics:
• Topic 1: Travel and tourism, including places of interest
• Topic 2: Media and technology
• Topic 3: The environment and where people live
3.2 Grammar
GCSE students will be expected to develop and use their knowledge of grammar throughout their
course.
The grammar requirements for GCSE are set out in two tiers: Foundation and Higher. Students are
required to use their knowledge of grammar from the specified lists, appropriate to the relevant tier
of entry. Students entering Higher tier assessments will be required to apply all grammar listed for
Foundation tier in addition to the grammar listed for Higher tier.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   11

=== PDF page 12 ===
Students will be expected to use the prescribed grammar across a range of contexts and
assessment tasks.
The lists describe grammatical features of the most widely used standard varieties.
The lists are written from the point of view of English-speaking students of the language, and so
include some reference to certain cross-linguistically complex relations with English.
Students are required to demonstrate both receptive and productive knowledge of the grammar
from the list. One derivational affix may be added to or removed from a word on the vocabulary list
to form a base or derived form that follows one of the patterns listed in the annexes. Inflectional
affixes may be added to derived forms (e.g. deuxième and deuxièmes from deux).
‘Grammar’ is defined as including the morphology (inflectional and derivational) and syntax (rules
of word order, relations between words and obligatory use of specific features). The vocabulary
lists contain the lexicon that is needed to apply the grammar.
Some grammatical features can be perceived as ‘grammar’ or ‘lexicon’ – these items are listed in
the vocabulary list, as stipulated in the DfE Subject Content. The vocabulary list also specifies
highly irregular forms within a grammatical subsystem (ie, subparts of paradigms where only some
forms are irregular), as laid out in the Grammar requirements. This is because forms, such as
irregular stems, are likely to be learnt and retrieved as individual items rather than as part of a
broader grammatical system. Listing them in the vocabulary list, therefore, reflects the pedagogical
attention required for these highly irregular forms.
Items given in brackets in the grammar list which are prefaced with 'eg' are illustrative, ie serve
only to clarify the description of the grammar features, and such items are not included in the
vocabulary list. In contrast, items that are not prefaced by 'eg' are comprehensive, providing all the
examples of the grammar that are included in the DfE Subject Content, and all such items are
contained in the vocabulary list.
Note that the English equivalents of some of the grammar are provided. This is relevant when
testing students’ ability to work from English to French (eg, in translation tasks).
3.2.1 Foundation tier
3.2.1.1 Noun phrases
Formation of feminine person nouns
Highly frequent irregulars are normally listed in the vocabulary list as separate items (eg, chef/
cheffe, héros/héroïne, Juif/Juive).
• Add -e
• No change (article changes only)
• -eur ➜ -rice and/or -euse depending on which relevant base words (masculine forms) are
included in the vocabulary list
• -en ➜ -nne
Formation of plural nouns
Highly frequent irregulars are listed in the vocabulary list as separate items (eg, madame/
mesdames, monsieur/messieurs, œil/yeux).
• Add -s to most nouns
• Add -x to masculine nouns ending in -(e)au and -eu
• No change for nouns ending in -s, -x
12   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 13 ===
Infinitive used as a noun
Ie, equivalent of -ing (gerund) in English.
Determiners: Articles
Agreement of articles with noun for gender and number (le, la, les and un, une, des).
Contraction of definite article (le/la ➜ l’) before singular nouns that start with a vowel or h muet.
Functions of definite and indefinite articles, including where their use or omission differs from
English (eg, La santé est importante, le mercredi).
Use of definite article before an adjective to form a noun, including uninflected adjectives for
languages and addition of a capital letter where the resulting noun is a nationality (eg, seul ➜ le
seul, anglais ➜ l’anglais, anglaise ➜ l'Anglaise).
Partitive articles when distinguishing between parts and wholes. Eg, after jouer with musical
instruments, after faire with sports.
Use of de (and omission of article) before nouns following a verb in negative and after expressions
of quantity.
Contraction of de to d’ before a word beginning with a vowel.
Other determiners
Demonstrative adjectives (ce, cet, cette, ces).
Possessive adjectives (mon, ma, mes, ton, ta, tes, son, sa, ses, notre, nos, votre, vos, leur, leurs).
Interrogative adjectives (quel, quelle, quels, quelles).
Agreement patterns for indefinite adjectives (chaque, plusieurs, même(s), autre(s), tout(e)(s), tous,
quelque(s)).
Pronouns
Subject pronouns (je, tu, il, elle, on, nous, vous – as singular and plural formal ‘you’ – ils and elles
are listed in the vocabulary list. Their grammar (agreement, position) is laid out in this grammar list.
Preverbal position of singular direct object pronouns (me, te, vous, le, la) (not juxtaposed with
indirect object pronouns).
Preverbal position of singular indirect object pronouns (me, te, vous, lui) (not juxtaposed with direct
object pronouns).
Verbs used with plural reflexive pronouns, with reflexive and reciprocal meanings (e.g., nous nous
écrivons; vous vous parlez; ils se regardent)
Preverbal position of reflexive pronouns (me, te, se, nous, vous, se).
Contraction of pronouns (me ➜ m’, te ➜ t’, le/la ➜ l’, se ➜ s’) before a vowel or h muet.
Use of emphatic pronouns moi and toi after prepositions (the pronouns and relevant individual
prepositions are listed separately in the vocabulary list).
Use of relative pronoun qui in subject relative clauses.
Where a word listed is used as multiple types of pronouns (e.g., ‘elle’, ‘nous’, ‘vous’ as emphatic
pronouns and subject pronouns, or ‘lui’ as an emphatic pronoun and an indirect object pronoun),
these are listed as one entry and used in each form, and all variations of use are set out in the
entry.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   13

=== PDF page 14 ===
3.2.1.2 Verb phrases
Verbs and verb forms that do not fit into the grammar detailed here can still be listed in the
vocabulary list.
Negation
Syntax of verbal negation with ne…pas, ne…jamais, ne…rien (as equivalent of ‘not verb anything’
and ‘verb nothing’), and ne…personne (as equivalent of ‘not verb anyone/body’ and ‘verb nobody’).
Interrogatives
Interrogatives expressed through:
• intonation with subject verb (SV) word order, including when followed by a wh-word ( qui,
quand, quoi, pourquoi, comment, combien, où)
• wh-word ( qu’, quand, pourquoi, comment, combien, où) followed by est-ce que followed by
SV word order
• wh-word ( que/qu’, quand, pourquoi, comment, combien, où) followed by verb subject (VS)
word order.
Inflectional morphology
Specific irregular inflected forms (eg, faites, vont), as a minimum those specified below, are
normally listed in the vocabulary list.
Some verbs incur a change to the spelling in their stems usually in order to preserve a
pronunciation pattern. Eg, accents change or are added (mener, je mène), a letter is added (jeter,
je jette), softened (manger, nous mangeons and commencer, nous commençons), dropped
(mettre, je mets), or substituted. Such spelling changes would not normally be individually credit-
bearing.
Regular* and four very high frequency irregular** patterns in 1st, 2nd, 3rd persons in singular
and plural for:
*-er verbs (eg, parler), clusters of high frequency -ir verbs that all pattern following one of these
four ‘anchor’ verbs: choisir, partir, venir, ouvrir, clusters of high frequency -re verbs that all pattern
following one of these three ‘anchor’ verbs: entendre, prendre, traduire.
**aller, avoir, être, faire (including use of avoir + noun where the English equivalent is ‘BE +
adjective’ eg, + froid, + chaud, + an(s), + faim, + soif, + peur).
• Present indicative, as equivalent of the English simple (I walk) and ongoing (I am walking)
functions, and (with time adverbs) for expression of the future as equivalent of the English
simple (the holidays start tomorrow) and continuous (I am working this evening).
• Irregular inflected forms of the four very high frequency irregular verbs ( aller, avoir, être,
faire) are listed in the vocabulary list.
• Perfect tense, as equivalent of the English simple past (I walked, he went) and present
perfect (I have walked, he has gone), including past participle formation for -er verbs and the
seven verb clusters listed above.
• Agreement of past participles
• Irregular past participles of three very high frequency irregular verbs ( été, eu, fait).
• Periphrastic future expression ( aller + infinitive), as equivalent of the English ‘will + verb’ and
‘BE + going to + verb’.
• Imperative (2nd person singular and plural only, including aller and faire; but not avoir, être;
not reflexive).
14   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 15 ===
Regular patterns (see * above) and four very high frequency irregular patterns (see ** above) in
1st, 2nd, 3rd persons in singular only (excluding ‘you’ formal) for:
• Imperfect for habitual (only for equivalent of English ‘used to + verb’) and ongoing (BE + ing)
functions.
• Irregular inflected forms of three very high frequency irregular verbs ( avais, avait; étais,
était; faisais, faisait) are listed in the vocabulary list.
• Additional English equivalent functions are listed in the vocabulary list as follows: étais,
était (to mean ‘was, were + adjectival complement’), avais, avait (to mean ‘had’).
Other irregular inflected forms
Present indicative forms for 1st, 2nd, 3rd persons, in singular only, of nine high frequency verbs
(boire, connaître, courir, croire, écrire, recevoir, rire, suivre, voir).
Their present indicative, past participle, imperative forms, and the infinitives are listed in the
vocabulary list.
Any other irregular present indicative forms, their past participles, imperative forms, and the
infinitives are listed in the vocabulary list.
Impersonal verbs
Il y a to mean ‘there is/are’, il y avait to mean ‘there was/were/used to be’ and il y aura to mean
‘there is going to be/are going to be/will be’ are listed in the vocabulary list as multi-word phrases.
Il fait + adjective (eg, il fait beau, il fait froid). Any adjectives that would be used in this construction
are listed in the vocabulary list.
Il + weather-related expressions (eg, il neige, il y a du soleil) are listed in the vocabulary list, as
multi-word phrases where necessary.
Il faut + infinitive
Il est for telling the time
Modal verbs
Present indicative forms for 1st, 2nd, 3rd persons, in singular and plural of modals devoir, pouvoir,
savoir, vouloir followed by infinitive. All inflected forms of the modals are listed in the vocabulary
list.
Conditional forms in 1st, 2nd, 3rd persons, in singular only (excluding ‘you’ formal), of vouloir
(voudrais, voudrait), as equivalent of English ‘would like (to) + verb’, are listed in the vocabulary
list.
Reflexive use of verbs
1st, 2nd, 3rd persons in singular and plural.
Reflexive verb forms (eg, se laver) with the same meaning as a listed base verb (eg, laver) are not
listed. Reflexive verb forms with different meanings from a listed base verb (eg, passer, se passer)
will be listed on the same line. When reflexive verb forms with different meanings from a listed
base verb are not listed, they will not be tested. No tenses are used which are outside the current
subject content and grammar annexes. Reflexives are bound by the same rules as all other verbs -
only being used in the tenses specified in the subject content and its annexes.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   15

=== PDF page 16 ===
3.2.1.3 Adjectival phrases
Agreement for gender and number with nouns following regular patterns (of adjectives listed in the
vocabulary list).
Gender
Highly frequent irregulars are listed in the vocabulary list as separate items (eg, net/te, bon/ne,
nouveau/nouvelle, pareil/le, travailleur/travailleuse).
• Add -e
• No change with adjectives ending in mute -e
• -x ➜ -se
• -el ➜ -lle
• -en ➜ -nne
• -f ➜ -ve
• -er ➜ -ère
Number
Irregulars beau/x and nouveau/x are listed in the vocabulary list as separate items.
• Add -s
• No change for masculine forms already ending in -s and -x
• -al ➜ -aux for masculine
Position of adjectives in relation to the nouns they refer to: mostly after nouns, before nouns only
for the defined set in the vocabulary list.
Use of regular (plus…que/de, moins…que/de, aussi…que) and irregular comparative structures,
with the irregular adjectival forms (meilleur(e)(s) and pire(s)) listed in the vocabulary list.
3.2.1.4 Adverbial phrases
Adverbs and adverbial phrases are listed in the vocabulary list.
Position of adverbs of time, manner, frequency, place.
Use of regular (plus…que, moins…que, aussi…que) and irregular comparative structures, with the
irregular adverbial form (mieux) listed in the vocabulary list.
3.2.1.5 Prepositions
À/de can be needed before a noun or a second verb following some verbs and adjectives. Where
the preposition changes or adds to the meaning of the verb, English translations are listed (eg
arriver ‘to arrive’, arriver à ‘to manage to’).
Appropriate use of en/à with proper nouns for places (eg countries, regions/states, cities).
Contraction of definite article when used with à and de to agree with the gender and number (ie, à,
à la, au, aux; de, de la, du, des are listed in the vocabulary list).
De to indicate possession (eg, le sac de Léa).
Prepositions (pour, sans) + infinitive.
3.2.1.6 Derivational morphology (Reading only)
Derivational morphology listed here indicates that even if only the base form (eg, rapide) is listed in
the vocabulary list, a derived form that follows one of the patterns listed here (eg, rapidement) may
16   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 17 ===
be included in reading texts – or if only the specific affixed form is listed, the base form may be
included in reading texts.
Note, if derived forms are included in listening material or are required for production, they must be
listed separately in the Vocabulary List, unless the derivation in its spoken/written form is clearly
recognisable for learners at this level as being derived from the base form.
Uniformly applicable derivational morphology that changes meaning
Ordinal numbers created by adding -ième (or by dropping -e and adding -ième) to cardinal
numbers eg, deux – deuxième, quatre – quatrième. Irregular forms premier and première are listed
in the vocabulary list.
Other highly frequent patterns
Morphology that changes meaning
Prefixes: adding in- or im- to adjectives, adverbs and nouns, only where the English equivalent is
un- or in- or means ‘opposite of’. Eg, également ➜ inégalement, sécurité ➜ insécurité, possible ➜
impossible.
Morphology that changes the part of speech
Suffixes:
• Adjectives created by adding -able or -eable to the verb stem, only where the English
equivalent is -able or -ible. Eg, porter ➜ portable, changer ➜ changeable.
• Nouns created by adding -ion or -ation to the verb stem, only where the English equivalent is
-ion or -ation. Eg, progresser ➜ progression, préparer ➜ préparation.
• Adverbs ending in -ment, only where the English equivalent is -ly, created by:
• adding -ment to the feminine form of adjectives eg, première ➜ premièrement
• by dropping -ant(e)/-ent(e) from an adjective and adding -amment/-emment eg, courant ➜
couramment, patient ➜ patiemment.
3.2.2 Higher tier
3.2.2.1 Noun phrases
Determiners: Articles
Partitive articles with uncountable nouns
Use of article with dans, omission of article with en
Other determiners
Use of negative adjective determiner aucun(e)
Pronouns
Preverbal use of pronouns y and en (not juxtaposed with other object pronouns, except in the
phrase ‘il y en a', ‘il y en avait’ and ‘il y en aura’).
Preverbal position of plural direct object pronouns (nous, vous, les) (not juxtaposed with indirect
object pronouns).
Preverbal position of plural indirect object pronouns (nous, vous, leur) (not juxtaposed with direct
object pronouns).
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   17

=== PDF page 18 ===
Use of emphatic pronouns (lui, elle, nous, vous, eux, elles), including after prepositions.
Preverbal position of plural reflexive pronouns (nous, vous, se).
Negative subject pronouns personne ne + verb and rien ne + verb (as equivalent of English
‘nobody + verb’ and ‘nothing + verb’).
Relative clauses (with où and que).
3.2.2.2 Verb phrases
Syntax of negation with ne…plus, ne…ni… (ni …), ne… pas encore, ne…que.
Passive voice in the present (full form only, ie with par).
Impersonal verbs with adjectives + de (eg, il est difficile/facile/interdit de + infinitive). Any adjectives
used in impersonal phrases are listed in the vocabulary list.
Impersonal verbs in phrases il manque + noun, il vaut mieux + infinitive, il vaut la peine de +
infinitive.
Periphrastic time expressions être en train de (as equivalent of ‘BE [in the process of] + verb-ing’)
and venir de (as equivalent of ‘HAVE just done + verb’).
Verbs used with plural reflexive pronouns, with reflexive and reciprocal meanings (eg, nous nous
écrivons, vous vous parlez, ils se regardent).
Inflectional morphology
• Two additional clusters of high frequency verbs that all pattern following the ‘anchor’ verbs
connaître and écrire, in the forms as specified at Foundation: Present indicative (in 1st, 2nd,
3rd persons, singular and plural), perfect tense, periphrastic future, imperative (2nd person
singular and plural, not reflexive), imperfect (in 1st, 2nd, 3rd persons, singular), plus the
additional forms laid out below for the anchor verbs.
• Present tense with depuis (as equivalent of ‘have been + ing’ for ‘x time’).
• Perfect tense of modals ( devoir, pouvoir, savoir, vouloir) (with past participles listed in the
vocabulary list).
• Inflectional future for regular - er verbs (in 1st, 2nd, 3rd persons in singular and plural) as
equivalent of both ‘will + verb’ and ‘BE + going to + verb’.
• Singular forms of four high frequency irregular verbs ( aurai/auras/aura, ferai/feras/fera,
irai/iras/ira, serai/seras/sera) are listed in the vocabulary list.
• Conditional of regular - er forms only (1st, 2nd, 3rd persons) in singular and plural.
• Singular forms of four high frequency irregular verbs ( aurais/aurait, ferais/ferait, irais/irait,
serais/serait) are listed in the vocabulary list.
• Imperfect for regular (- er and the nine ‘anchor’ verb patterns) verbs 1st, 2nd and 3rd person
plural forms for equivalent of English habitual (‘used to + verb’) and ongoing (‘BE -ing’). This
includes the 1st, 2nd and 3rd person plural forms of the three very high frequency irregular
verbs (avoir to mean ‘had’, être to mean ‘were + adjectival complement’, faire).
• Imperative of 2 nd person singular and plural of être (sois and soyez, each listed in vocabulary
list), and of regular (-er and the nine ‘anchor’ verb patterns) verbs 1st person plural (not
reflexive), with the function ‘Let’s + verb!’
• Present participle of regular (- er and the nine ‘anchor’ verb patterns) verbs after en, including
adjectival use where relevant.
• Irregular present participles of three very high frequency irregular verbs ( étant, ayant,
faisant) are listed in the vocabulary list.
18   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 19 ===
3.2.2.3 Adjectival phrases
Use of regular superlative adjective structures (irregulars le meilleur/la meilleure/les meilleurs/les
meilleures, and le pire/la pire/les pires are listed in the vocabulary list).
3.2.2.4 Adverbial phrases
Use of regular superlative adverb structures (irregular le mieux is listed in the vocabulary list).
3.2.2.5 Prepositions
Preposition (avant de) + infinitive
Preposition (après avoir) + past participle
3.2.2.6 Derivational morphology (Reading only)
Derivational morphology listed here indicates that even if only the base form (eg, porter) is listed in
the vocabulary list, a derived form that follows one of the patterns listed here (eg, porteur) may be
included in reading texts. Or, if only the specific affixed form is listed, the base form may be
included in reading texts.
Note, if derived forms are included in listening material or are required for production, they must be
listed separately in the Vocabulary List, unless the derivation in its spoken/written form is clearly
recognisable for learners at this level as being derived from the base form.
Morphology that changes the part of speech
Suffixes: agent nouns created by adding -eur or -ateur to a verb stem, eg, porter ➜ porteur,
consommer ➜ consommateur
French sound-symbol correspondences
This list specifies key differences in sound-spelling correspondences between French and English
which students will need to learn at GCSE to be able to read out loud and transcribe with sufficient
accuracy at this level. It is not an exhaustive list of all the sound-spelling correspondences in the
French language. Where a letter or combination of letters is pronounced (or a sound spelt) in
approximately the same way in French as in English, it is not listed.
Students will be expected to pronounce words with stress patterns that allow their speech to be
clear and comprehensible.
The use of hyphens indicates the position of the letters in a word, when position is relevant to the
sound. Eg: xx- (at the beginning of a word), -xx- (in the middle of a word), -xx (at the end of a
word).
• silent final consonant
• a
• i/y
• eu
• e
• au/eau/closed o/ô
• ou
• u
• silent final e
• é (-er, -ez)
• en/an/em/am
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   19

=== PDF page 20 ===
• on/om
• ain/in/aim/im
• è/ê/ai
• oi/oy
• ch
• ç (and soft 'c')
• qu
• j
• -tion
• -ien
• s-liaison
• t-liaison
• n-liaison
• x-liaison
• h
• un
• -gn-
• r
• open eu/œu
• open o
• -s-
• th
• -ill-/-ille
• -aill-/ail
Please see Appendix 1 for examples of French words demonstrating the sound-symbol
correspondences.
3.3 Vocabulary
Students should learn the GCSE French vocabulary list (Appendix 2) and will be expected to use
this vocabulary across a range of contexts and assessment tasks.
3.3.1 Composition of vocabulary content
1. Students are expected to know 1,200 lexical items for Foundation tier, and a further 500 lexical
items for Higher tier. Students are also required to know words which can be regularly inflected
and (for Paper 3 Reading only) regularly derived from listed lexical items using the grammar
specified in section 3.3.
2. Because no vocabulary is specified for KS2 or KS3, the vocabulary list is comprehensive and
makes no assumptions about vocabulary previously taught.
3. The vocabulary lists include, as part of the 1,200 or 1,700 items, the words listed in the DfE
subject content Annex E. These are the words which are referenced in the grammar in section
3. They include irregular forms of high frequency verbs and other parts of speech.
4. In addition to the 1,200 and 1,700 items, the vocabulary lists contain:
a. 30 short phrases that are multi-word phrases in French
b. 20 items to refer to relevant geographical or cultural places/events, including the names of
countries to be known receptively and productively.
20   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 21 ===
5. For Reading only:
a. Higher and overlapping tier texts in Paper 3 may include a small number of words outside the
vocabulary list. English meanings of such words will be supplied adjacent to the text for
reference. No more than 2% of words (rounded to the nearest whole word) in any given text
may be glossed in this way.
b. For both Foundation and Higher tiers, all proper nouns (such as cities or countries) that are
not on the vocabulary list and are not deemed to be easily understood, can be glossed or
explained in an adjacent note.
c. Up to 2% of words (rounded to the nearest whole word) of any given text can be comprised
of cognates which are not included in the vocabulary list. Cognates are words in which the
substantial majority of letters are the same in English and the assessed language; they have
the same meaning in both languages and any difference in spelling should not impede
understanding for students entered for GCSE French.
6. Words with multiple meanings and/or parts of speech (eg, the French noun histoire that can be
translated by the different English words ‘story’ and ‘history’, or recycled (as a part participle)
and recycled (as an adjective) should be listed as one entry in the vocabulary list. All English
equivalents that could be tested (eg, in questions that require working from English to French)
should be explicitly provided.
7. The vocabulary which students will be expected to know, for both comprehension and
production, will be compiled with close and explicit reference for each item on the list to
frequency of occurrence in the language. This information about frequency has been taken from
Lonsdale, D. & Le Bras. Y. (2009). A frequency dictionary of French: Core vocabulary for
learners.
8. At least 85% of the 1,200 and 1,700 words selected should be from the 2,000 most frequent
words occurring in the most widely used standard forms of the language. In some cases, more
than one spelling is in common use, including where recent spelling reforms have taken place.
In such cases, tolerance is shown for both versions of the spelling, eg coût/cout.
The vast majority of lexical items listed as vocabulary are single word vocabulary items. Where a
compound word or multi-word phrase translates a single English word, it is counted either as a
separate lexical item in the main vocabulary list, or as one of the 30 multi-word phrases. However,
where a compound word or phrase can easily be understood from its components, and where the
components are already included in the list, the compound word will not be included. Easily
understood from its components means that the literal translation of the component parts
unambiguously gives the meaning in English. An example of an easily understood compound word
or phrase in French is point de vue. An example of a compound word/phrase in French that is not
easily understood is petit déjeuner.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   21

=== PDF page 22 ===
22   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 23 ===
4 Scheme of assessment
Find past papers and mark schemes, and sample papers for new courses, on our website at 
aqa.org.uk/pastpapers
This specification is designed to be taken over two years.
This is a linear qualification. In order to achieve the award, learners must complete all
assessments at the end of the course and in the same series.
GCSE exams and certification for this specification are available for the first time in May/June 2026
and then every May/June for the life of the specification.
All materials are available in English only.
Our GCSE exams in French include questions that allow learners to demonstrate their ability to:
• draw together their knowledge, skills and understanding from across the full course of study.
4.1 Aims and learning outcomes
Courses based on this specification should provide a coherent, satisfying and worthwhile course of
study. They should encourage students to develop confidence in, and a positive attitude towards,
French and to recognise the importance of languages. They should also provide a strong linguistic
and cultural foundation for students who go on to study French at a higher level post-16.
Through studying GCSE French, students should develop their ability and ambition to
communicate independently in speech and writing with speakers of the language for authentic
purposes and about subjects which are meaningful and interesting to them.
The study of French at GCSE should also build students’ confidence and broaden their horizons,
enabling them to step beyond familiar cultural boundaries, develop new ways of seeing the world,
and better understand relationships between the foreign language and the English language.
It is important that students following a GCSE French course should become familiar with aspects
of the contexts and cultures of the countries and communities where the language is spoken.
Courses based on this specification must encourage learners to:
• learn and use the range of vocabulary required for the tier at which they are studying as
specified in the vocabulary list
• learn and use the grammar specified to understand and produce meaning in written and oral
modalities. The grammar to be learnt is set out in Section 3
• learn and apply the principles by which spelling represents sounds in standard or widely used
forms of the language, and use clear and comprehensible pronunciation when speaking the
language
• use the language they are learning both receptively and productively, in spoken and written
forms, for a range of audiences and purposes, in different genres and in formal and informal
contexts which are relevant to their current and future needs and interests, having regard to
the likely experiences of a wide social range
• be able to recall and use language in different situations and be able to move between
French and English.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   23

=== PDF page 24 ===
This specification in French, in line with the DfE Subject Content, requires students to:
• understand written texts in French. Texts will predominantly focus on the defined vocabulary
and grammar for each tier and will be of limited complexity at Foundation tier
• understand spoken extracts comprising the defined vocabulary and grammar for each tier
which are delivered at a pace which is no faster than a moderate pace, where each word is
clearly discernible (as appropriate to pronunciation norms for each language), and which do
not contain extraneous distractions or interruptions
• undertake dictation of short, spoken extracts (including some vocabulary from outside the
vocabulary list) with credit for accurate spelling
• write text in French in a lexically and grammatically accurate way in response to simple and
familiar stimuli
• translate in writing short sentences or texts, from French to English and vice versa, using a
range of the vocabulary and grammar specified for each tier. In this context, translation
means an appropriate and sufficient rendering of the meaning of the original language
• infer, by using knowledge of the vocabulary and grammar specified for each tier, plausible
meanings of single words from outside the vocabulary list when they are embedded in the
context of written sentences
• speak using clear and comprehensible language to:
• read aloud a short written text in French and undertake a short unprepared conversation
relating to the text
• undertake a Role-play, including asking and answering questions, simulating a context
such as a social conversation, where instructions about what to say are unambiguous;
• talk about visual stimuli and extend this conversation into a short unprepared interaction.
Spoken and written language (for comprehension and production) will be of limited complexity at
Foundation tier. At Higher tier students will be expected to understand (in listening and reading)
and produce (in speech and writing) language at a higher level of complexity. The complexity of the
language will be in both cases appropriate to the level of study. Complexity in this sense means the
extent to which written and spoken language uses features such as multi-clause units (eg, relative
clauses), pronouns, especially multiple pronouns, multiple verbs in one sentence or clause, long
sentences, or morphology and syntax (eg, word order) which is very different to English in form
and/or function.
4.2 Assessment objectives
Assessment objectives (AOs) are set by Ofqual and are the same across all GCSE French
specifications and all exam boards.
The exams will measure how students have achieved the following assessment objectives.
• AO1: understand and respond to spoken language in speaking and in writing
• AO2: understand and respond to written language in speaking and in writing
• AO3: demonstrate understanding and accurate application of the grammar and vocabulary
prescribed in the specification.
24   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 25 ===
4.2.1 Assessment objective weightings for GCSE French
Assessment objectives (AOs) Component weightings (approx %) Overall
weighting
(approx %)Paper 1:
Listening
Paper 2:
Speaking
Paper 3:
Reading
Paper 4:
Writing
AO1 22.5 12.5 35
AO2 7.5 25 12.5 45
AO3 2.5 5 12.5 20
Overall weighting of
components
25 25 25 25 100
4.3 Assessment weightings
The marks awarded on the papers will be scaled to meet the weighting of the components.
Learners’ final marks will be calculated by adding together the scaled marks for each component.
Grade boundaries will be set using this total scaled mark. The scaling and total scaled marks are
shown in the table below.
4.3.1 Foundation tier
Component Maximum raw mark Scaling factor Maximum scaled mark
Paper 1 (Listening) 40 x1.25 50
Paper 2 (Speaking) 50 x1 50
Paper 3 (Reading) 50 x1 50
Paper 4 (Writing) 50 x1 50
Total scaled mark: 200
4.3.2 Higher tier
Component Maximum raw mark Scaling factor Maximum scaled mark
Paper 1 (Listening) 50 x1 50
Paper 2 (Speaking) 50 x1 50
Paper 3 (Reading) 50 x1 50
Paper 4 (Writing) 50 x1 50
Total scaled mark: 200
4.4 Paper 1: Listening
Students may be entered for either Foundation tier or Higher tier but they must enter at the same
tier for all four skills.
25% of the marks for the qualification
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   25

=== PDF page 26 ===
Foundation tier 40 marks; 35 minutes approximately (including five minutes' reading time at the
start of the test and two minutes’ checking time at the end of the test)
Higher tier 50 marks; 45 minutes approximately (including five minutes' reading time at the start of
the test and two minutes’ checking time at the end of the test)
• The test will be studio recorded using native speakers speaking in clearly articulated,
standard speech. It will be delivered at a pace which is no faster than a moderate pace,
where each word is clearly discernible (as appropriate to pronunciation norms for each
language) and there will be no extraneous distractions or interruptions.
• The recording will be provided to schools and colleges in an appropriate audio format.
• Different types of spoken language will be used, for a range of audiences and purposes, in
different genres and in formal and informal contexts which are relevant to students’ current
and future needs and interests, having regard to the likely experiences of a wide social
range.
• Students will have five minutes’ reading time at the beginning of the test to read the
questions.
• Students will have two minutes’ checking time at the end of the test to check their work.
• An example will be provided in the question paper only where it is necessary to indicate to
students how a particular question should be answered.
• In Section A, each item will be heard twice and pauses for students to read the questions
before the item is played and then to answer the questions will be built into the test recording.
• In Section B, the dictation, students will hear each sentence three times and pauses will be
built into the test recording.
• Students will be allowed to make notes at any time during the test, including the reading time.
• Access to dictionaries is not permitted at any time during the test.
4.4.1 Foundation and Higher tier
In Section A, students’ understanding of spoken language will be tested by a range of
comprehension question types in English, requiring non-verbal responses or responses in English.
The tests will contain some items which are common to both tiers.
The responses will be assessed according to a detailed mark scheme. The appropriate mark(s) will
be awarded if the student has satisfactorily communicated his or her understanding.
The test at both tiers will consist of a variety of short and longer spoken pieces of language,
comprising the defined vocabulary and grammar for each tier which will not place an undue burden
on memory at any time.
Students will be required to identify the overall message, key points, details and opinions from
items such as announcements, short conversations, bulletins, podcasts and spoken descriptions.
In Section B, students will undertake a dictation exercise of short spoken extracts (including some
words from outside the vocabulary list) with credit for accurate spelling. At Foundation tier, the
dictation will consist of a minimum of 20 words. At Higher tier, the dictation will consist of a
minimum of 30 words. At both tiers, two words from outside the vocabulary list will be included
within the dictation.
Students will hear the dictation sentences three times: the first time as a full sentence, the second
time in short sections and the third time again as a full sentence. See the dictation assessment
criteria (page 32).
26   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 27 ===
4.5 Paper 2: Speaking
Students may be entered for either Foundation tier or Higher tier but they must enter at the same
tier for all four skills.
25% of the marks for the qualification
A window of up to five weeks will be timetabled for the test, during which schools/colleges will be
free to test their students at any time. The window will be timetabled to run in April and May. The
teacher may open the Speaking test materials up to three working days in advance of the first day
of the specified test period in order to prepare for conducting the tests. The Teacher’s booklet will
contain a Speaking test sequence chart which will show which Role-play, Reading aloud and Photo
card each student must be allocated.
Detailed instructions for the teacher will be issued prior to the test period. Online training will also
be available to ensure teachers are wholly familiar with the requirements and format of the tests.
The confidentiality of the test materials must be strictly maintained prior to and during the period of
the tests.
Access to dictionaries is not permitted at any time during the test or the supervised preparation
time.
Students will be allowed to make notes, on an Additional answer sheet, during their supervised
preparation time and take them into the exam room to use at any point during the test. There is no
restriction on the number of words or the material (eg conjugated verbs) which the notes may
contain. They must hand the notes into the teacher-examiner at the end of the test. The notes must
be stored under secure conditions until results day, after which they must be disposed of.
The test is conducted and audio-recorded by the teacher and marked by an AQA examiner.
Teachers are expected to give students the opportunity to respond fully to all tasks (being aware of
the recommended length of each task specified below) to ensure that each student is able to
access the maximum number of marks available. Students will be assessed on the quality of the
responses they can produce within the maximum allocated time (nine minutes for Foundation tier
and twelve minutes for Higher tier).
Equal credit will be given for any language used by the student which is beyond the defined
content but that fulfils the task requirements.
Students should not be disadvantaged on the basis of their gender identity and/or how they refer to
the gender identity of others in their exam responses. Students’ preferred ways of referring to
themselves and others through the use of pronouns, gendered language and grammatical
agreements will be credited by examiners, regardless of whether such usage has been adopted by
official language bodies in the target language-speaking countries.
The cards for each student will be allocated according to a sequence chart for each tier provided in
the Teacher’s Booklet in each exam series. The Reading aloud card and the Photo card will always
be from different themes and the sequence chart will ensure that there is no overlap of task
between the different sections of the test for individual students.
All three parts of the test will allow students to demonstrate appropriate and accurate use of the
prescribed vocabulary and grammatical structures, including some more complex forms. The
language produced will be of limited complexity at Foundation tier and at a greater level of
complexity at Higher tier.
The tasks will also allow students to demonstrate knowledge of the sound symbol
correspondences outlined in the prescribed grammar requirements so as to be understood by a
native speaker.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   27

=== PDF page 28 ===
These are the recommended lengths for each part of the speaking test:
Foundation tier Higher tier
Part 1: Role-play Between 1 and 1.5 minutes Between 1 and 1.5 minutes
Part 2: Reading aloud task Between 2 and 2.5 minutes Between 3 and 3.5 minutes
Part 3: Photo card task Between 4 and 5 minutes in
total (approximately one minute
for description of the photos
and between 3 and 4 minutes
for the unprepared
conversation)
Between 6 and 7 minutes in
total (approximately one and a
half minutes for description of
the photos and between 4.5
and 5.5 minutes for the
unprepared conversation)
Total 7 to 9 minutes 10 to 12 minutes
Marking of the speaking test will stop at the maximum amount of time specified for the tier. Ie, nine
minutes for Foundation tier and twelve minutes for Higher tier.
4.5.1 Foundation and Higher tier
50 marks
Foundation tier: students will attend one session of 7–9 minutes (and supervised preparation time
of 15 minutes).
Higher tier: students will attend one session of 10–12 minutes (and supervised preparation time of
15 minutes).
Timing of the test will start when the teacher begins the Role-play using the introductory text in the
Teacher’s Booklet. Timing of the test will end when the maximum time allowed is reached (nine
minutes at Foundation tier for the whole test and twelve minutes at Higher tier for the whole test).
The format of the test will be the same for each tier and will consist of three parts.
4.5.1.1 Role-play (10 marks)
Based on a stimulus card, to be prepared by the student immediately before the test during their
preparation time. Students will carry out one role-playing situation (recommended to last between
one and one and a half minutes at both tiers). The Role-play tasks on the Candidate card will be in
English and will contain unambiguous instructions about what to say.
The Role-play card will allow students to answer questions and convey information, using the
prescribed vocabulary lists, adapting language to suit the purpose of the task. Students will be
required to ask a question as part of the Role-play.
4.5.1.2 Reading aloud task (15 marks)
Based on a short text of a minimum of 35 words at Foundation tier and a minimum of 50 words at
Higher tier, to be prepared by the student immediately before the test in their supervised
preparation time. The words assessed will focus on the sound symbol correspondences listed in
the DfE subject content. Students will not be permitted to read their text out loud during their
supervised preparation time.
After reading the text out loud during the test, students will take part in a short unprepared
conversation on the topic of the text. There are four compulsory questions set on the topic of the
text which teachers will ask exactly as they are written in the Teacher’s Booklet. At Foundation tier,
this part of the test is recommended to last between two and two and a half minutes in total. At
28   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 29 ===
Higher tier, this part of the test is recommended to last between three and three and a half minutes
in total. These recommended totals include the reading of the text and the short conversation.
The student’s response to the four compulsory questions is marked as a whole. Marks are not
awarded to individual questions.
4.5.1.3 Discussion of Photo card (25 marks)
Based on a Photo card to be prepared by the student immediately before the test in their
supervised preparation time. The Photo card will contain two photos from one of the three themes.
Students will have the Photo card during their supervised preparation time in order to prepare their
response to the first question. Students may make written notes in the preparation time and use
these notes during the task. The first question in the Teacher’s Booklet focuses on the content of
the two photos on the card and is compulsory.
The Photo card task is recommended to last between four and five minutes in total at Foundation
tier. At Higher tier, the Photo card task is recommended to last between six and seven minutes in
total. These recommended time allocations include both parts of this task as outlined below (the
student’s response to the content of the photos and the unprepared conversation).
Response to the content of the photos
Students are recommended to talk about both photos for approximately one minute at Foundation
tier and approximately one and a half minutes at Higher tier. Coverage of the photos does not need
to be equal but students are required to say at least one thing about each photo as a minimum
requirement. Any relevant content will be credited in this first part of the task, even if it is outside
the prescribed theme of the Photo card.
Unprepared conversation
The second part of this task is an unprepared conversation which follows the description of the
photos. At Foundation tier, this is recommended to last between 3 and 4 minutes and at Higher tier
between 4.5 and 5.5 minutes. This conversation can be based on any or all of the three topics from
the theme specified on the Candidate's card and in the Teacher's Notes, enabling students to
develop personalised responses.
Guidance on questioning technique for the unprepared conversation is provided in the Paper 2
Teacher’s Booklet.
As this conversation is unprepared, students must not know in advance of the Speaking test which
questions, theme or topic areas will be covered in their test. It is also not permissible for teachers
to narrow the scope of questions by discussing in advance with students their preferred areas for
inclusion during the test.
See the Speaking test assessment criteria (page 34)
4.6 Paper 3: Reading
Students may be entered for either Foundation tier or Higher tier but they must enter at the same
tier for all four skills.
25% of the marks for the qualification
Foundation tier 50 marks, 45 minutes
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   29

=== PDF page 30 ===
Higher tier 50 marks, 1 hour
• Different types of written language stimuli will be used for a range of audiences and
purposes, in different genres and in formal and informal contexts which are relevant to
students’ current and future needs and interests, having regard to the likely experiences of a
wide social range.
• An example will be provided in the question paper only where it is necessary to indicate to
students how a particular question should be answered.
• Access to dictionaries is not permitted at any time during the test.
4.6.1 Foundation and Higher tier
In Section A, students’ understanding of written language will be tested by a range of question
types in English, requiring non-verbal responses or responses in English. The tests will contain
some items which are common to both tiers.
Responses will be assessed according to a detailed mark scheme. The appropriate mark(s) will be
awarded if the student has satisfactorily communicated his or her understanding.
The test at both tiers will consist of a variety of short and longer texts, predominantly focusing on
the defined vocabulary and grammar for each tier and will be of limited complexity at Foundation
tier. Students will be required to identify the overall message, key points, details and opinions from
items such as public notices and advertisements, extracts from brochures, newspapers,
magazines, email and websites.
Students will also be required to infer, by using knowledge of the vocabulary and grammar
specified for each tier, plausible meanings of single words from outside the vocabulary list when
they are embedded in the context of written sentences.
In Section B, there will be a translation of sentences from French into English (a minimum of 35
words at Foundation tier and 50 words at Higher tier). In this context, translation means an
appropriate and sufficient rendering of the meaning of the original language.
4.7 Paper 4: Writing
Students may be entered for either Foundation tier or Higher tier but they must enter at the same
tier for all four skills.
25% of the marks for the qualification
• Access to dictionaries is not permitted at any time during the test.
• All instructions are in English. All questions are in English.
• Equal credit will be given for any language used by the student which is beyond the defined
content but that fulfils the task requirements.
• Students should not be disadvantaged on the basis of their gender identity and/or how they
refer to the gender identity of others in their exam responses. Students’ preferred ways of
referring to themselves and others through the use of pronouns, gendered language and
grammatical agreements will be credited by examiners, regardless of whether such usage
has been adopted by official language bodies in the target language-speaking countries.
4.7.1 Foundation tier
50 marks, 1 hour 10 minutes
Students are required to write in French.
30   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 31 ===
4.7.1.1 Question 1 (10 marks)
A task which will demonstrate students’ ability to write five short sentences about a photo using the
prescribed vocabulary and grammar in a familiar context. The language produced will be of limited
complexity at this level.
4.7.1.2 Question 2 (10 marks)
A task of five compulsory bullet points related to the topics and themes. This will demonstrate
students’ ability to write a short text in response to familiar stimuli, using simple sentences and
familiar language accurately. The language produced will be of limited complexity at this tier.
Students are expected to write approximately 50 words to complete the task.
4.7.1.3 Question 3 (5 marks)
A task testing students’ understanding and accurate application of the prescribed grammar.
Students will complete five short sentences with a missing word, selected from three options.
4.7.1.4 Question 4 (10 marks)
A translation of sentences from English into French, requiring a minimum of 35 words. This will
demonstrate students’ ability to use the prescribed vocabulary and grammatical structures. In this
context, translation means an appropriate and sufficient rendering of the meaning of the original
language.
4.7.1.5 Question 5 (15 marks)
A structured writing task of three compulsory bullets which will demonstrate students’ ability to
respond at a more extended length to familiar stimuli related to the topics and themes and for a
range of audiences and purposes. They will also make accurate use of vocabulary and
grammatical structures.
Students are expected to write approximately 90 words to complete the task.
They choose either Question 5.1 or 5.2. This question is common to Higher tier Question 2.
4.7.2 Higher tier
50 marks, 1 hour 15 minutes
Students are required to write in French.
4.7.2.1 Question 1 (10 marks)
A translation of sentences from English into French, requiring a minimum of 50 words. This will
demonstrate students’ ability to use the prescribed vocabulary and grammatical structures. In this
context, translation means an appropriate and sufficient rendering of the meaning of the original
language.
4.7.2.2 Question 2 (15 marks)
A structured writing task of three compulsory bullet points which will demonstrate students’ ability
to respond at a more extended length to familiar stimuli related to the topics and themes and for a
range of audiences and purposes. They will also make accurate use of vocabulary and
grammatical structures, but equal credit will be given for language used, which is beyond the
defined content.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   31

=== PDF page 32 ===
Students are expected to write approximately 90 words to complete the task. They choose either
Question 2.1 or 2.2. This question is common to Foundation tier Question 5.
4.7.2.3 Question 3 (25 marks)
An open-ended writing task of two compulsory bullet points which will demonstrate students’ ability
to make more creative use of the prescribed vocabulary and grammatical structures, showing a
higher level of complexity and accuracy at this level.
Equal credit will be given for language used which is beyond the defined content.
Students are expected to write approximately 150 words to complete the task. They choose either
Question 3.1 or 3.2.
See the Writing test assessment criteria (page 41)
4.8 Assessment criteria
4.8.1 Paper 1: Listening
4.8.1.1 Foundation tier
Section A: Listening comprehension
See the mark scheme published each year for details of how marks are awarded.
Section B: Dictation
The dictation is assessed for Communication of meaning (AO1) (4 marks) and Transcription and
grammatical accuracy (AO3) (4 marks) as specified in the criteria below. The maximum mark for
Section B is 8. When awarding the marks for AO1 and AO3, the student’s response across all the
spoken extracts should be considered as a whole.
Level Mark AO1
4 4 The meaning of the spoken extracts is always or almost always
communicated clearly.
3 3 The meaning of the spoken extracts is mostly communicated.
2 2 The meaning of the spoken extracts is sometimes communicated.
1 1 The meaning of the spoken extracts is rarely communicated.
0 0 The meaning of the spoken extracts communicated does not meet
the standard for Level 1 at this tier.
Level Mark AO3
4 4 Words are frequently transcribed correctly with a good level of
grammatical accuracy.
3 3 Words are generally transcribed correctly with a reasonable level of
grammatical accuracy.
2 2 Words are occasionally transcribed correctly with a limited level of
grammatical accuracy.
32   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 33 ===
Level Mark AO3
1 1 Words are very rarely transcribed correctly with a very limited level
of grammatical accuracy.
0 0 Transcription and grammatical accuracy do not meet the standard
for Level 1 at this tier.
Notes
A mark of zero for AO1 automatically results in a mark of zero for AO3, but apart from that, the
AO1 mark does not limit the mark for AO3.
Please see the mark scheme for more guidance on application of the assessment criteria.
4.8.1.2 Higher tier
Section A: Listening comprehension
See the mark scheme published each year for details of how marks are awarded.
Section B: Dictation
The dictation is assessed for Communication of meaning (AO1) (5 marks) and Transcription and
grammatical accuracy (AO3) (5 marks) as specified in the criteria below. The maximum mark for
Section B is 10. When awarding the marks for AO1 and AO3, the student’s response across all the
spoken extracts should be considered as a whole.
Level Mark AO1
5 5 The meaning of the spoken extracts is communicated very clearly
throughout.
4 4 The meaning of the spoken extracts is almost always communicated
clearly.
3 3 The meaning of the spoken extracts is mostly communicated.
2 2 The meaning of the spoken extracts is sometimes communicated.
1 1 The meaning of the spoken extracts is rarely communicated.
0 0 The meaning of the spoken extracts communicated does not meet
the standard for Level 1 at this tier.
Level Mark AO3
5 5 Words are always or nearly always transcribed correctly with a very
high level of grammatical accuracy.
4 4 Words are frequently transcribed correctly with a good level of
grammatical accuracy.
3 3 Words are generally transcribed correctly with a reasonable level of
grammatical accuracy.
2 2 Words are occasionally transcribed correctly with a limited level of
grammatical accuracy.
1 1 Words are very rarely transcribed correctly with a very limited level
of grammatical accuracy.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   33

=== PDF page 34 ===
Level Mark AO3
0 0 Transcription and grammatical accuracy do not meet the standard
for Level 1 at this tier.
Notes
A mark of zero for AO1 automatically results in a mark of zero for AO3, but apart from that, the
AO1 mark does not limit the mark for AO3.
Please see the mark scheme for more guidance on application of the assessment criteria.
4.8.2 Paper 2: Speaking
Marks will be allocated in the following way at both Foundation and Higher tier:
AO1 AO2 AO3 Total
Role-play 10 10
Reading aloud
task
10 5 15
Discussion of
Photo card
15 5 5 25
Total 25 15 10 50
4.8.2.1 Foundation tier
Part 1: Role-play (10 marks)
There are five tasks for the Role-play, each of which will be awarded up to 2 marks for AO2.
For each task:
Mark AO2
2 The message is conveyed without ambiguity.
1 The message is partially conveyed or conveyed with some
ambiguity.
0 No part of the message is conveyed.
Notes
• Where students are required to give two responses or details in one task, failure to convey
an unambiguous message in reply to one of them means that the message is partially
conveyed and one mark is awarded.
• The tasks on the Candidate’s card and the notes in the Teacher’s Booklet clearly explain how
much detail the student is expected to give per task. However, some students may still go
beyond the minimum requirement of the task. When this happens, as soon as the task is
accomplished, any further incorrect information given by the student is ignored for
assessment purposes.
34   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 35 ===
Part 2: Reading aloud (15 marks)
This part of the test is divided into two sections:
• reading aloud of a text
• answering four compulsory questions specified in the Teacher’s Booklet.
Reading aloud of the text (5 marks AO3)
Reading aloud of the text is marked according to the following criteria.
Level Mark AO3
5 5 There may be minor errors and a few major errors in pronunciation.
4 4 There are regular minor and some major errors in pronunciation.
3 3 There are frequent minor and frequent major errors in pronunciation.
2 2 Pronunciation is rarely accurate.
1 1 Pronunciation is very rarely accurate.
0 0 Does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this tier.
Notes
• A major error is one which adversely affects communication.
• A minor error is one which does not affect communication.
Response to compulsory questions (10 marks AO1)
Level Mark AO1
5 9–10 • All questions are answered clearly.
• At least two answers have an extended response and at least
one other is developed well.
4 7–8 • At least three questions are answered clearly.
• One answer has an extended response and at least one other
is developed well.
3 5–6 • At least two questions are answered clearly.
• One answer is developed well and at least one other is
developed minimally.
2 3–4 • At least two questions are answered understandably.
• One answer is developed minimally.
1 1–2 • At least one question is answered understandably.
• The answer(s) may be a very limited response.
0 0 Does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this tier.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   35

=== PDF page 36 ===
Part 3: Discussion of Photo card (25 marks)
This part of the test is divided into two sections:
• response to the content of the photos on the card
• unprepared conversation.
Response to content of the photos (5 marks A02)
Level Mark AO2
5 5 • Quite a lot of information is conveyed.
• Information may lack clarity from time to time.
4 4 • Some information is conveyed.
• Information lacks clarity from time to time.
3 3 • Some information is conveyed.
• Information lacks clarity from time to time and occasionally
messages break down.
2 2 • Little information is conveyed.
• Messages regularly break down.
1 1 • Very little information is conveyed.
• Messages regularly break down or the very little language
produced is barely understandable.
0 0 Does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this tier.
Notes
• AO2 marks are awarded for the student’s response to the content of the photos, in reply to
the teacher’s prompt ‘Tell me about the photos’. Students must talk about both photos, but
coverage need not be equal. The minimum requirement for each photo is for students to say
one thing.
• If a student only speaks about one photo, there is a deduction of one mark. So, if according
to the criteria three marks would have been awarded, this is reduced to two. However, if the
mark would have been one, no deduction is made.
Unprepared conversation (15 marks AO1 and 5 marks AO3)
Marks for AO1 and for AO3 are awarded based on the conversation following the student’s
response to the content of the photos.
AO1 (15 marks)
Level Mark AO1
5 13–15 • Quite a lot of information is conveyed.
• Regular good development of responses.
• Information may lack clarity from time to time.
36   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 37 ===
Level Mark AO1
4 10–12 • Some information is conveyed.
• Some good development and regular minimal development of
responses.
• Information lacks clarity from time to time.
3 7–9 • Some information is conveyed.
• Regular minimal development of responses.
• Information lacks clarity from time to time and occasionally
messages break down.
2 4–6 • Little information is conveyed.
• Limited responses with occasional minimal development.
• Messages regularly break down.
1 1–3 • Very little information is conveyed.
• Limited responses.
• Messages regularly break down or hardly anything is said.
0 0 Does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this tier.
AO3 (5 marks)
Level Mark AO3
5 5 • Good variety of vocabulary and structures, but with some
repetition.
• There may be frequent minor errors. Some major errors may
occur even in basic language.
4 4 • Some variety of vocabulary and structures, but with regular
repetition.
• Frequent minor errors and some major errors in most
responses to questions.
3 3 • Limited variety of vocabulary and structures with regular
repetition.
• Very frequent minor and frequent major errors in most
responses to questions.
2 2 • Very limited variety of vocabulary and structures with regular
repetition.
• Very frequent minor and very frequent major errors in nearly all
responses to questions.
1 1 • Hardly any variety of vocabulary and structures.
• Minor and major errors in all responses to questions.
0 0 The language does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this
tier.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   37

=== PDF page 38 ===
Notes
• A mark of zero for AO1 automatically results in a mark of zero for AO3, but, apart from that,
the AO1 mark does not limit the mark for AO3.
• A major error is one which adversely affects communication.
• A minor error is one which does not affect communication.
More guidance on application of the assessment criteria can be found in the mark scheme for
Paper 2.
4.8.2.2 Higher tier
Part 1: Role-play (10 marks)
There are five tasks for the Role-play, each of which will be awarded up to 2 marks for AO2.
For each task:
Mark AO2
2 The message is conveyed without ambiguity.
1 The message is partially conveyed or conveyed with some
ambiguity.
0 No part of the message is conveyed.
Notes
• Where students are required to give two responses or details in one task, failure to convey
an unambiguous message in reply to one of them means that the message is partially
conveyed and one mark is awarded.
• The tasks on the Candidate’s card and the notes in the Teacher’s Booklet clearly explain how
much detail the student is expected to give per task. However, some students may still go
beyond the minimum requirement of the task. When this happens, as soon as the task is
accomplished, any further incorrect information given by the student is ignored for
assessment purposes.
Part 2: Reading aloud task (15 marks)
This part of the test is divided into two sections:
• reading aloud of a text
• answering four compulsory questions specified in the Teacher’s role.
Reading aloud of the text (5 marks AO3)
Reading aloud of the text is marked according to the following criteria.
Level Mark AO3
5 5 Pronunciation is always or nearly always accurate but there may be
an occasional minor error.
4 4 There are a few minor errors in pronunciation.
3 3 There are some minor errors and very occasional major errors in
pronunciation.
2 2 There are minor errors and a few major errors in pronunciation.
38   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 39 ===
Level Mark AO3
1 1 There are regular minor and some major errors in pronunciation.
0 0 Does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this tier.
Notes
• A major error is one which adversely affects communication.
• A minor error is one which does not affect communication.
Response to compulsory questions (10 marks AO1)
Level Mark AO1
5 9–10 • All questions are answered clearly.
• At least two answers have an extended response and at least
one other is developed well.
4 7–8 • At least three questions are answered clearly.
• One answer has an extended response and at least one other
is developed well.
3 5–6 • At least two questions are answered clearly.
• One answer is developed well and at least one other is
developed minimally.
2 3–4 • At least two questions are answered understandably.
• One answer is developed minimally.
1 1–2 • At least one question is answered understandably.
• The answer(s) may be a very limited response.
0 0 Does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this tier.
Part 3: Discussion of Photo card (25 marks)
This part of the test is divided into two sections:
• response to the content of the photos on the card
• unprepared conversation.
Response to the content of the photos (5 marks AO2)
Level Mark AO2
5 5 • A lot of information is conveyed.
• Information is always conveyed clearly.
4 4 • A lot of information is conveyed.
• Information is nearly always conveyed clearly.
3 3 • Quite a lot of information is conveyed.
• Information is nearly always conveyed clearly.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   39

=== PDF page 40 ===
Level Mark AO2
2 2 • Quite a lot of information is conveyed.
• Information may lack clarity from time to time.
1 1 • Some information is conveyed.
• Information lacks clarity from time to time.
0 0 Does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this tier.
Notes
• AO2 marks are awarded for the student’s response to the content of the photos, in reply to
the teacher’s prompt ‘Tell me about the photos’. Students must talk about both photos, but
coverage need not be equal. The minimum requirement for each photo is for students to say
one thing.
• If a student only speaks about one photo, there is a deduction of one mark. So, if according
to the criteria three marks would have been awarded, this is reduced to two. However, if the
mark would have been one, no deduction is made.
Unprepared conversation (15 marks AO1 and 5 marks AO3)
Marks for AO1 and AO3 are awarded based on the conversation following the student’s response
to the content of the photos.
AO1 (15 marks)
Level Mark AO1
5 13–15 • A lot of information is conveyed.
• Consistent good development with regular extended
responses.
• Information is always or nearly always conveyed clearly.
4 10–12 • A lot of information is conveyed.
• Consistent good development with some extended responses.
• Information is conveyed clearly, but with occasional lapses.
3 7–9 • Quite a lot of information is conveyed.
• Consistent good development with occasional extended
responses.
• Information is generally conveyed clearly.
2 4–6 • Quite a lot of information is conveyed.
• Regular good development of responses.
• Information may lack clarity from time to time.
1 1–3 • Some information is conveyed.
• Some good development and regular minimal development of
responses.
• Information lacks clarity from time to time.
0 0 Does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this tier.
40   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 41 ===
AO3 (5 marks)
Level Mark AO3
5 5 • Wide variety of vocabulary and structures.
• There may be a few minor errors. Few or no major errors when
more complex language is attempted.
4 4 • Very good variety of vocabulary and structures.
• Some minor errors. Some major errors when more complex
language is attempted.
3 3 • Good variety of vocabulary and structures, but with occasional
repetition.
• Quite a lot of minor errors. Occasional major errors, not only in
attempts at more complex language.
2 2 • Good variety of vocabulary and structures, but with some
repetition.
• Frequent minor errors. Some major errors which occur even in
basic language.
1 1 • Some variety of vocabulary and structures, but with regular
repetition.
• Frequent minor errors and some major errors in most
responses to questions.
0 0 The language does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this
tier.
Notes
• A mark of zero for AO1 automatically results in a mark of zero for AO3, but, apart from that,
the AO1 mark does not limit the mark for AO3.
• A major error is one which adversely affects communication.
• A minor error is one which does not affect communication.
More guidance on application of the assessment criteria can be found in the mark scheme for
Paper 2.
4.8.3 Paper 3: Reading
See the mark scheme published each year for details of how marks are awarded for this question
paper.
4.8.4 Paper 4: Writing
4.8.4.1 Foundation tier
Marks will be allocated in the following way at Foundation tier:
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   41

=== PDF page 42 ===
AO2: Understand and
respond to written
language in writing
AO3: Demonstrate
knowledge and
accurate application of
the grammar and
vocabulary
Total
Question 1 10 10
Question 2 5 5 10
Question 3 5 5
Question 4 10 10
Question 5 10 5 15
Total 25 25 50
In all questions, vocabulary and grammar which are not on the defined list will be given equal credit
to items which are on it.
Question 1 (10 marks)
Students are required to write five sentences. Each sentence is marked separately for AO2 and is
worth a maximum of two marks (10 marks in total), according to the following criteria. The whole
sentence should be considered when awarding the mark.
Mark AO2
2 The relevant message is clearly communicated.
1 The message is relevant but has some ambiguity and causes a
delay in communication.
0 The message is irrelevant or cannot be understood.
Question 2 (10 marks)
There are five compulsory bullet points assessed for AO2 (5 marks) and AO3 (5 marks), as
specified in the criteria below. The student is expected to produce approximately 50 words over the
whole question. The number of words is approximate – demonstration of the mark descriptors is
more important than the word count. Examiners will mark all work produced by the student, even if
it is well beyond the suggested number of words.
Level Mark AO2
5 5 • All five bullet points are covered.
• Communication is clear.
4 4 • At least four bullet points are covered.
• Communication is mostly clear. There are occasional lapses in
clarity.
3 3 • At least three bullet points are covered.
• Communication is generally clear. There are several lapses in
clarity.
42   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 43 ===
Level Mark AO2
2 2 • At least two bullet points are covered.
• Communication is sometimes clear. There are regular lapses
in clarity.
1 1 • At least one bullet point is covered.
• Communication is often not clear. There are many lapses in
clarity.
0 0 The content does not meet the standard required for a mark at this
tier.
Notes
• All bullet points are compulsory and must be covered, but there is no need for equal
coverage of the bullet points.
• When awarding a mark, all aspects of the descriptors must be considered and not only the
number of bullet points covered.
Level Mark AO3
5 5 • There is a variety of vocabulary and grammatical structures.
• There may be some errors, but these are minor.
4 4 • There is some variety of vocabulary and grammatical
structures.
• There are frequent minor errors but with an occasional major
error.
3 3 • There is some attempt at a variety of vocabulary and
grammatical structures.
• There are frequent minor errors, together with some major
errors.
2 2 • There is use of limited or repetitive vocabulary and
grammatical structures.
• There are frequent minor errors and a number of major errors.
1 1 • There is little awareness of appropriate vocabulary and
grammatical structures.
• There are errors in the vast majority of sentences.
0 0 The language does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this
tier.
Notes
• A mark of zero for AO2 automatically results in a mark of zero for AO3, but, apart from that,
the AO2 mark does not limit the mark for AO3.
• A major error is one which adversely affects communication.
• A minor error is one which does not affect communication.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   43

=== PDF page 44 ===
Question 3 (5 marks)
Students are required to complete five sentences by writing the correct word to complete the short
sentence, using their knowledge of grammar. There are three words to choose from for each of the
five sentences. There are 5 marks for AO3.
Please see the published mark scheme for each series for this question.
Question 4 (10 marks)
The translation is assessed for AO3 (10 marks) as specified in the criteria below. The maximum
mark for Question 4 is 10.
When awarding the mark for Grid one out of a maximum of five, the translation is divided into 15
elements as shown in the mark scheme for each exam series. A tick will be awarded for each
element that is communicated, despite any minor inaccuracies. The number of ticks out of 15 in
column 2 of Grid one below equates to a mark out of five in column 3.
Grid one: Rendering of the original meaning
Level Number of
ticks
credited
Mark AO3
5 13–15 5 The meanings of all or nearly all elements of the original
language are sufficiently rendered.
4 10–12 4 The meanings of most elements of the original language
are sufficiently rendered.
3 7–9 3 The meanings of some elements of the original language
are sufficiently rendered.
2 4–6 2 The meanings of few elements of the original language are
sufficiently rendered.
1 1–3 1 The meanings of very few elements of the original language
are sufficiently rendered.
0 0 0 No elements of the meanings of the original language are
conveyed.
Once the mark for Grid one is awarded, a mark out of five is awarded for Grid two. This mark is
based on the student’s response across all five sentences as a whole.
Grid two: Knowledge of vocabulary and grammar
Level Mark AO3
5 5 • Very good knowledge of the required vocabulary. Few if any
inappropriate or omitted items.
• Grammar is highly accurate and any errors that occur are only
minor.
4 4 • Good knowledge of vocabulary. Some inappropriate or omitted
items.
• Grammar is generally accurate with regular minor errors.
44   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 45 ===
Level Mark AO3
3 3 • Satisfactory knowledge of vocabulary. Regular inappropriate or
omitted items.
• Grammar is more accurate than inaccurate. Regular major and
minor errors.
2 2 • Limited knowledge of vocabulary. Many inappropriate or
omitted items.
• Grammar is generally inaccurate. Many major and minor
errors.
1 1 • Very limited knowledge of vocabulary. Few appropriate items.
• Grammar is highly inaccurate. Major and minor errors in all or
almost all sentences.
0 0 The language produced does not meet the standard required for
Level 1 at this tier.
Notes
• A mark of zero in Grid one automatically results in a mark of zero in Grid two, but apart from
that, the 'Rendering of the original meaning' mark does not limit the mark for 'Knowledge of
vocabulary and grammar'.
• A major error is one which adversely affects communication.
• A minor error is one which does not affect communication.
Question 5 (15 marks)
There are three compulsory bullet points, assessed for AO2 (10 marks) and AO3 (5 marks), as
specified in the criteria below. The student is expected to produce approximately 90 words over the
whole question. The number of words is approximate and demonstration of the mark descriptors is
more important than the word count. Examiners will mark all work produced by the student even if
it is well beyond the suggested number of words.
Level Mark AO2
5 9–10 • All three bullet points are covered.
• Communication is clear.
• Ideas are regularly developed with a lot of relevant information
being conveyed.
4 7–8 • All three bullet points are covered.
• Communication is mostly clear but perhaps with occasional
lapses in clarity.
• Ideas are often developed with quite a lot of relevant
information being conveyed.
3 5–6 • At least two bullet points are covered.
• Communication is generally clear but there are likely to be
lapses in clarity.
• A few ideas may be developed and some relevant information
is conveyed.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   45

=== PDF page 46 ===
Level Mark AO2
2 3–4 • At least one bullet point is covered.
• Communication is sometimes clear and there are regular
lapses in clarity.
• Little relevant information is conveyed.
1 1–2 • At least one bullet point is covered.
• Communication is often not clear and there are very many
lapses in clarity.
• Very little relevant information is conveyed.
0 0 The content does not meet the standard required for a mark at this
tier.
Notes
There may be some imbalance in the coverage of the three compulsory bullet points but, provided
at least some coverage of all bullet points is evident, students will have access to full marks where
the other criteria are met.
When awarding a mark, all aspects of the descriptors must be considered and not only the number
of bullet points covered.
Level Mark AO3
5 5 • A good variety of vocabulary is used.
• There are regular attempts at complexity of language and
structure.
• There are references to all three time frames which are mainly
successful.
• Any errors are mainly minor but some major errors may occur,
particularly in complex structures and sentences.
4 4 • A variety of vocabulary is used.
• There are some attempts at complexity of language and
structure.
• There are references to at least two different time frames
which are mainly successful.
• Errors are mainly minor but some major errors may occur.
3 3 • Some variety of vocabulary is used.
• There may be occasional attempts at complexity of language
and structure.
• There are references to at least two different time frames,
although these may not always be successful.
• There may be some major errors, and minor errors occur
regularly but overall the response is more accurate than
inaccurate.
46   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 47 ===
Level Mark AO3
2 2 • A limited variety of vocabulary is used.
• The language is mainly simple but there may be some
attempts at longer sentences with appropriate linking words.
• There may be no successful references to different time
frames.
• There may be frequent major and minor errors and overall the
response is generally inaccurate.
1 1 • The range of vocabulary is narrow and/or repetitive.
• The language is simple and sentences are short or may not be
properly constructed.
• There are no successful references to different time frames.
• There may be frequent major and minor errors and overall the
response is highly inaccurate.
0 0 The language does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this
tier.
Notes
• A mark of zero for AO2 automatically results in a mark of zero for AO3. Apart from that, the
AO2 mark does not limit the mark for AO3.
• A major error is one which adversely affects communication.
• A minor error is one which does not affect communication.
4.8.4.2 Higher tier
Marks will be allocated in the following way at Higher tier:
AO2: Understand and
respond to written
language in writing
AO3: Demonstrate
knowledge and
accurate application of
the grammar and
vocabulary
Total
Question 1 10 10
Question 2 10 5 15
Question 3 15 10 25
Total 25 25 50
In all questions, vocabulary and grammar which are not on the defined list will be given equal credit
to items which are on it.
Question 1 (10 marks)
The translation is assessed for AO3 (10 marks) as specified in the criteria below. The maximum
mark for Question 1 is 10.
When awarding the mark for Grid one out of a maximum of five, the translation is divided into 15
elements as shown in the mark scheme for each exam series. A tick will be awarded for each
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   47

=== PDF page 48 ===
element that is communicated, despite any minor inaccuracies. The number of ticks out of 15 in
column 2 of Grid one below equates to a mark out of five in column 3.
Grid one: Rendering of the original meaning
Level Number of
ticks
credited
Mark AO3
5 13–15 5 The meanings of all or nearly all elements of the original
language are sufficiently rendered.
4 10–12 4 The meanings of most elements of the original language
are sufficiently rendered.
3 7–9 3 The meanings of some elements of the original language
are sufficiently rendered.
2 4–6 2 The meanings of few elements of the original language are
sufficiently rendered.
1 1–3 1 The meanings of very few elements of the original language
are sufficiently rendered.
0 0 0 No elements of the meanings of the original language are
conveyed.
Once the mark for Grid one is awarded, a mark out of five is awarded for Grid two. This mark is
based on the student’s response across all five sentences as a whole.
Grid two: Knowledge of vocabulary and grammar
Level Mark AO3
5 5 • Very good knowledge of the required vocabulary. Few if any
inappropriate or omitted items.
• Grammar is highly accurate and any errors that occur are only
minor.
4 4 • Good knowledge of vocabulary. Some inappropriate or omitted
items.
• Grammar is generally accurate with regular minor errors.
3 3 • Satisfactory knowledge of vocabulary. Regular inappropriate or
omitted items.
• Grammar is more accurate than inaccurate. Regular major and
minor errors.
2 2 • Limited knowledge of vocabulary. Many inappropriate or
omitted items.
• Grammar is generally inaccurate. Many major and minor
errors.
48   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 49 ===
Level Mark AO3
1 1 • Very limited knowledge of vocabulary. Few appropriate items.
• Grammar is highly inaccurate. Major and minor errors in all or
almost all sentences.
0 0 The language produced does not meet the standard required for
Level 1 at this tier.
Notes
• A mark of zero in Grid one automatically results in a mark of zero in Grid two, but apart from
that, the 'Rendering of the original meaning' mark does not limit the mark for Knowledge of
vocabulary and grammar.
• A major error is one which adversely affects communication.
• A minor error is one which does not affect communication.
Question 2 (15 marks)
There are three compulsory bullet points assessed for AO2 (10 marks) and AO3 (5 marks), as
specified in the criteria below. The student is expected to produce approximately 90 words over the
whole question. The number of words is approximate – demonstration of the mark descriptors is
more important than the word count. Examiners will mark all work produced by the student even if
it is well beyond the suggested number of words.
All bullet points must be covered, but there is no need for equal coverage of the bullets.
Level Mark AO2
5 9–10 • All three bullet points are covered.
• Communication is clear.
• Ideas are regularly developed with a lot of relevant information
being conveyed.
4 7–8 • All three bullet points are covered.
• Communication is mostly clear but perhaps with occasional
lapses in clarity.
• Ideas are often developed with quite a lot of relevant
information being conveyed.
3 5–6 • At least two bullet points are covered.
• Communication is generally clear but there are likely to be
lapses in clarity.
• A few ideas may be developed and some relevant information
is conveyed.
2 3–4 • At least one bullet point is covered.
• Communication is sometimes clear and there are regular
lapses in clarity.
• Little relevant information is conveyed.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   49

=== PDF page 50 ===
Level Mark AO2
1 1–2 • At least one bullet point is covered.
• Communication is often not clear and there are very many
lapses in clarity.
• Very little relevant information is conveyed.
0 0 The content does not meet the standard required for a mark at this
tier.
Notes
There may be some imbalance in the coverage of the three compulsory bullet points but, provided
at least some coverage of all bullet points is evident, students will have access to full marks where
the other criteria are met.
When awarding a mark, all aspects of the descriptors must be considered and not only the number
of bullet points covered.
Level Mark AO3
5 5 • A good variety of vocabulary is used.
• There are regular attempts at complexity of language and
structure.
• There are references to all three time frames which are mainly
successful.
• Any errors are mainly minor but some major errors may occur,
particularly in complex structures and sentences.
4 4 • A variety of vocabulary is used.
• There are some attempts at complexity of language and
structure.
• There are references to at least two different time frames
which are mainly successful.
• Errors are mainly minor but some major errors may occur.
3 3 • Some variety of vocabulary is used.
• There may be occasional attempts at complexity of language
and structure.
• There are references to at least two different time frames,
although these may not always be successful.
• There may be some major errors, and minor errors occur
regularly but overall the response is more accurate than
inaccurate.
2 2 • A limited variety of vocabulary is used.
• The language is mainly simple but there may be some
attempts at longer sentences with appropriate linking words.
• There may be no successful references to different time
frames.
• There may be frequent major and minor errors and overall the
response is generally inaccurate.
50   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 51 ===
Level Mark AO3
1 1 • The range of vocabulary is narrow and/or repetitive.
• The language is simple and sentences are short or may not be
properly constructed.
• There are no successful references to different time frames.
• There may be frequent major and minor errors and overall the
response is highly inaccurate.
0 0 The language does not meet the standard required for Level 1 at this
tier.
Notes
• A mark of zero for AO2 automatically results in a mark of zero for AO3. Apart from that, the
AO2 mark does not limit the mark for AO3.
• A major error is one which adversely affects communication.
• A minor error is one which does not affect communication.
Question 3 (25 marks)
For this question there are two compulsory bullet points, which are assessed for AO2 (15 marks),
and AO3 (10 marks), as specified in the criteria below. The maximum mark for Question 3 is 25.
The student is expected to produce approximately 150 words over the whole question. The number
of words is approximate – demonstration of the mark descriptors is more important than the word
count. Examiners will mark all work produced by the student even if it is well beyond the suggested
number of words.
Both bullet points must be covered, but there is no need for equal coverage of the bullets.
AO2
Level Mark AO2
5 13–15 • A lot of information is conveyed in relation to the task.
• Regular successful development of ideas, accounts and/or
description.
• Communication is clear with very few or no lapses in clarity.
4 10–12 • Quite a lot of information is conveyed in relation to the task.
• Regular attempts at development of ideas, accounts and/or
description which are mostly successful.
• Communication is mostly clear but there are a few lapses in
clarity.
3 7–9 • An adequate amount of information is conveyed in relation to
the task.
• Some successful development of ideas, accounts and/or
description.
• Communication is usually clear but there are some lapses in
clarity.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   51

=== PDF page 52 ===
Level Mark AO2
2 4–6 • Some information is conveyed in relation to the task.
• A little development of ideas, accounts and/or description.
• Communication is sometimes unclear and there are regular
lapses in clarity.
1 1–3 • A limited amount of information is conveyed in relation to the
task.
• Very limited or no development of ideas, accounts and/or
description.
• Communication is often unclear and there are frequent lapses
in clarity.
0 0 The content does not meet the standard required for a mark at this
tier.
Notes
• There may be some imbalance in the coverage of the two compulsory bullet points but,
provided at least some coverage of both bullet points is evident, students will have access to
full marks where the other criteria are met.
• When awarding a mark, all aspects of the descriptors must be considered and not only the
number of bullet points covered.
• A student who conveys information in relation to one bullet point can score a maximum of 12
marks for AO2.
AO3
In this question, the marks for AO3 are split between Range and use of language (Grid 1) and
Accuracy (Grid 2). There is a maximum of five marks for each of these criteria, making a total of 10
marks for AO3 in this question.
The whole of the response must be assessed when awarding the marks for AO3, even if some of it
is irrelevant to the bullet points.
Grid one: Range and use of language
Level Mark AO3 (Range and use of language)
5 5 • Very good variety of appropriate vocabulary and grammatical
structures.
• Complex language is regularly attempted and is often
successful.
4 4 • Good variety of appropriate vocabulary and grammatical
structures.
• Complex language is regularly attempted and is generally
successful.
3 3 • Some variety of appropriate vocabulary and grammatical
structures.
• Complex language is occasionally attempted and is sometimes
successful.
52   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 53 ===
Level Mark AO3 (Range and use of language)
2 2 • Little variety of appropriate vocabulary and grammatical
structures.
• Short and simple structures are often used but there is also
regular use of longer sentences, with linking words.
1 1 • Very little variety of appropriate vocabulary.
• Structures used are mainly short and simple.
0 0 The range of language produced does not meet the standard
required for a mark at this tier.
Grid two: Accuracy
Level Mark AO3 (Accuracy)
5 5 • The response is usually accurate, although there may be
occasional major and some minor errors, especially in
attempts at more complex structures.
• Verbs and tense formations are secure.
4 4 • The response is generally accurate with several major and
minor errors, usually in attempts at more complex structures.
• Verbs and tense formations are generally correct.
3 3 • The response is reasonably accurate. There are major and
minor errors in both simple and complex structures.
• Verb and tense formations are sometimes correct.
2 2 • The response is more inaccurate than accurate. There are
frequent major and minor errors.
• Verb and tense formations are often incorrect.
1 1 • The response is mostly inaccurate. There are major and minor
errors in all sentences.
• Verb and tense formations are nearly always incorrect.
0 0 The accuracy of language produced does not meet the standard
required for a mark at this tier.
Notes
• A mark of zero for AO2 automatically results in a mark of zero for AO3. Apart from that, the
AO2 mark does not limit the mark for AO3.
• A major error is one which adversely affects communication.
• A minor error is one which does not affect communication.
More guidance on application of the assessment criteria can be found in the mark scheme for
Paper 4.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   53

=== PDF page 54 ===
54   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 55 ===
5 General administration
You can find information about all aspects of administration, as well as all the forms you need, at 
aqa.org.uk/examsadmin
5.1 Entries and codes
You only need to make one entry for each qualification – this will cover all the question papers and
certification.
Every specification is given a national discount (classification) code by the Department for
Education (DfE), which indicates its subject area.
If a learner takes two specifications with the same discount code:
• further and higher education providers are likely to take the view that they have only
achieved one of the two qualifications
• only one of them will be counted for the purpose of the School and College Performance
tables – the DfE's rules on 'early entry' will determine which one.
Please check this before your learners start their course.
Qualification title Option AQA entry
code
DfE discount
code
AQA GCSE in French Foundation
tier
8652F FKF
Higher tier 8652H FKF
This specification complies with:
• Ofqual General conditions of recognition that apply to all regulated qualifications
• Ofqual GCSE qualification level conditions that apply to all GCSEs
• Ofqual GCSE subject level conditions that apply to all GCSEs in this subject
• all other relevant regulatory documents.
The Ofqual qualification accreditation number (QAN) is 610/2790/X .
5.2 Overlaps with other qualifications
There are no overlaps with any other AQA qualifications at this level.
5.3 Awarding grades and reporting results
The qualification will be graded on a nine-point scale: 1 to 9 – where 9 is the best grade.
A student taking Foundation Tier assessments will be awarded a grade within the range of 1 to 5.
Students who fail to reach the minimum standard for grade 1 will be recorded as U (unclassified)
and will not receive a qualification certificate.
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   55

=== PDF page 56 ===
A student taking Higher Tier assessments will be awarded a grade within the range of 4 to 9. A
student sitting the Higher tier who just fails to achieve grade 4 will be awarded an allowed grade 3.
Students who fail to reach the minimum standard for the allowed grade 3 will be recorded as U
(unclassified) and will not receive a qualification certificate.
5.4 Resits and shelf life
Learners can resit the qualification as many times as they wish, within the shelf life of the
qualification.
5.5 Previous learning and prerequisites
There are no previous learning requirements. Any requirements for entry to a course based on this
specification are at the discretion of schools and colleges.
5.6 Access to assessment: diversity and inclusion
General qualifications are designed to prepare learners for a wide range of occupations and further
study. Therefore our qualifications must assess a wide range of competences.
The subject criteria have been assessed to see if any of the skills or knowledge required present
any possible difficulty to any learners, whatever their ethnic background, religion, sex, age,
disability or sexuality. Tests of specific competences were only included if they were important to
the subject.
As members of the Joint Council for Qualifications (JCQ) we participate in the production of the
JCQ document Access Arrangements and Reasonable Adjustments: General and Vocational
qualifications. We follow these guidelines when assessing the needs of individual learners who
may require an access arrangement or reasonable adjustment. This document is published at 
jcq.org.uk
Learners with disabilities and special needs
We're required by the Equality Act 2010 to make reasonable adjustments to remove or lessen any
disadvantage that affects a disabled learner.
We can make arrangements for disabled learners and learners with special needs to help them
access the assessments, as long as the competences being tested aren't changed. Access
arrangements must be agreed before the assessment. For example, a Braille paper would be a
reasonable adjustment for a Braille reader.
To arrange access arrangements or reasonable adjustments, you can apply using the online
service at aqa.org.uk/eaqa
Special consideration
We can give special consideration to learners who have been disadvantaged at the time of the
assessment through no fault of their own – for example a temporary illness, injury or serious
problem such as family bereavement. We can only do this after the assessment.
Your exams officer should apply online for special consideration at aqa.org.uk/eaqa
56   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 57 ===
For more information and advice visit aqa.org.uk/access or email 
accessarrangementsqueries@aqa.org.uk
5.7 Working with AQA for the first time
If your school or college hasn't previously offered our specifications, you need to register as an
AQA centre. Find out how at aqa.org.uk/becomeacentre
5.8 Private candidates
This specification is available to private candidates.
A private candidate is someone who enters for exams through an AQA approved school or college
but is not enrolled as a learner there.
A private candidate may be self-taught, home schooled or have private tuition, either with a tutor or
through a distance learning organisation. They must be based in the UK.
If you have any queries as a private candidate, you can:
• speak to the exams officer at the school or college where you intend to take your exams
• visit our website at aqa.org.uk/privatecandidates
• email privatecandidates@aqa.org.uk
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   57

=== PDF page 58 ===
58   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 59 ===
6 Appendix 1: Sound symbol
correspondences (SSCs)
Examples of words demonstrating the sound symbol correspondences (SSCs).
Sound symbol correspondence Example 1 Example 2
silent final consonant sommes effort
a arriver avec
i/y physique public
eu deux (un) peu
e le de
au/eau/closed o/ô sauf beau
ou sous toujours
u dur connu
silent final e jeune chaque
é (-er, -ez) moitié région
en/an/em/am immédiatement grand
on/om tomber compétence
ain/in/aim/im matin faim
è/ê/ai vrai collège
oi/oy mois moyen
ch chose marché
ç (and soft 'c') façon français
qu banque informatique
j jusque jeunesse
-tion construction application
-ien ne…rien canadien
s-liaison nos les
t-liaison tout petit
n-liaison bon mon
x-liaison faux nouveaux
h homme hôpital
un lundi emprunter
AQA GCSE French 8652. GCSE exams June 2026 onwards. Version 1.2 August 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   59

=== PDF page 60 ===
Sound symbol correspondence Example 1 Example 2
-gn- campagne gagner
r rester comprendre
open eu/œu leur cœur
open o porte alors
-s- maison cuisine
th bibliothèque thème
-ill-/-ille brouillard famille
-aill-/ail taille travail
60   Visit aqa.org.uk/8652 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 61 ===
rank frequency
part of speech
headword
English equivalent
Tier F
Selection principle
1 det le/l'* the (m) F R
det la/l'* the (f) F R
det les the (pl) F R
pron le/l'** him, it (m) (obj) F R
pron la/l'** her, it (f) (obj) F R
2 det de*/d'* indefinite article following a verb in negative or expression of quantity, partitive article following a verb in 
negative or expression of quantity
F R
det du*/de l'* some (of the) (m) F R
det de la*/de l'* some (of the) (f) F R
det des* plural indefinite article, some (of the) (pl) F R
prep de**/d'** of, from F R
prep du**/de l'** of the, from (the) (m) F R
prep de la**/de l'** of the, from (the) (f) F R
prep des** of the, from (the) (pl) F R
3 det un* a/an (m) F R
num un** one F R
det une a/an (f) F R
4 prep à at, to, in, on F R
prep au/à l' at the, to the, in the, on the (m) F R
prep à la/à l' at the, to the, in the, on the (f) F R
prep aux at the, to the, in the, on the (pl) F R
5 v être (to) be | being F R
v suis* (I) am | (I) am being F R
v es (you (sing informal)) are | (you (sing informal)) are being F R
v est (she, he, it, one) is | (she, he, it, one) is being, (we (informal, impersonal)) are | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) are being
F R
v sommes (we) are | (we) are being F R
v êtes (you (pl, sing formal)) are | (you (pl, sing formal)) are being F R
v sont (they) are | (they) are being F R
v (aux) été was | (have, has) been F R
v étais (I) was + adjectival complement | (I) used to be | (I) was being | (you (sing informal)) were + adjectival 
complement | (you (sing informal)) used to be | (you (sing informal)) were being
F R
v était (she, he, it, one) was + adjectival complement | (she, he, it, one) used to be | (she, he, it, one) was 
being | (we (informal, impersonal)) were + adjectival complement | (we (informal, impersonal)) used to 
be | (we (informal, impersonal)) were being
F R
6 conj et and F O
7 prep en in, by, to F R
8 v avoir (to) have | having F R
v ai (I) have | (I) am having F R
v as (you (sing informal)) have | (you (sing informal)) are having F R
v a (she, he, it, one) has | (she, he, it, one) is having | (we (informal, impersonal)) have | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) are having
F R
v avons (we) have | (we) are having F R
v avez (you (pl, sing formal)) have | (you (pl, sing formal)) are having F R
v ont (they) have | (they) are having F R
v (aux) eu had | (have, has) had F R
v avais (I) had | (I) used to have | (I) was having | (you (sing informal)) had | (you (sing informal)) used to have 
| (you (sing informal)) were having
F R
v avait (she, he, it, one) had | (she, he, it, one) used to have | (she, he, it, one) was having | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) had | (we (informal, impersonal)) used to have | (we (informal, impersonal)) were having
F R
9 pron que*/qu'* ? what? F R
conj que**/qu'** that F R
10 prep pour for, in order to F R
11 prep dans in F R
12 det ce/cet/c' this, that, it (m) F R
det cette this, that (f) F R
det ces these, those F R
13 pron il he, it (m) (subj) F R
pron ils they (m, mixed gender) (subj) F R
14 pron qui | qui ? who, that | who? F R
16 prep sur on F O
17 pron se/s' himself, herself, itself, oneself (reflex) | ourselves (informal, impersonal) (reflex) |themselves (reflex) | each other | 
one another (reciprocal) 
F R
18 adv ne… pas (de) not (any) F R
19 adv plus (…que/qu')* adv + -er (...than), more (...than) F R
adj plus (…que/qu’)**; plus de 
(+ num)
adj + -er (…than), more (…than); more (than + num) F R
20 v pouvoir (to) be able to, can | being able to F R
v peux (I) am able to, can | (you (sing informal)) are able to, can F R
Appendix 2: GCSE French (8652) - Foundation tier vocabulary


=== PDF page 62 ===
v peut (she, he, it, one) is able to, can | (we (informal, impersonal)) are able to, can F R
v pouvons (we) are able to, can F R
v pouvez (you (pl, sing formal)) are able to, can F R
v peuvent (they) are able to, can F R
21 prep par by, per F O
22 pron je I (subj) F R
23 prep avec with F O
24 det tout*(e)(s) all, the whole (m) (f) (pl) F R
det tous all, the whole (mpl, mixed gender pl) F R
pron tout** everything, all F O
25 v faire; faire de + noun (to) do, make, go on/for + noun | doing, making, going on/for + noun; (to) do + -ing, go + -ing, play + 
noun | doing + -ing, going + -ing, playing + noun
F R
v fais | fais !; fais de + noun | 
fais de + noun !
(I) do, make, go on/for + noun | (I) am doing, am making, am going on/for + noun | (you (sing 
informal)) do, make, go on/for + noun | (you (sing informal)) are doing, are making, are going on/for + 
noun | do!, make!, go on/for + noun! (sing informal); (I) do + -ing, go + -ing, play + noun | (I) am doing + -
ing, am going + -ing, am playing + noun | (you (sing informal)) do + -ing, go + -ing, play + noun | (you 
(sing informal)) are doing + -ing, are going + -ing, are playing + noun | do + -ing!, go + -ing!, play + noun! 
(sing informal)
F R
v fait* | (aux) fait; fait de + 
noun | (aux) fait de + noun
(she, he, it, one) does, makes, goes on/for + noun | (she, he, it, one) is doing, is making, is going on/for + 
noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) do, make, go on/for + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) are doing, 
are making, are going on/for + noun | did, made, went on/for + noun | (have, has) done, (have, has) 
made, (have, has) gone on/for + noun; (she, he, it, one) does + -ing, goes + -ing, plays + noun | (she, he, 
it, one) is doing + -ing, is going + -ing, is playing + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) do + -ing, go + -ing, 
play + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) are doing + -ing, are going + -ing, are playing + noun | did + -
ing, went + -ing, played + noun | (have, has) done + -ing, (have, has) gone + -ing, (have, has) played + -
ing
F R
v faisons; faisons de + noun (we) do, make, go on/for + noun | (we) are doing, are making, are going on/for + noun | (we) do + -
ing, go + -ing, play + noun | (we) are doing + -ing, are going + -ing, are playing + noun 
F R
v faites | faites !; faites de | 
faites de !
you (pl, sing formal) do, make, go on/for + noun | (you (pl, sing formal)) are doing, are making, are 
going on/for + noun | do!, make!, go on/for + noun! (pl, sing formal); you (pl, sing formal) do + -ing, go + -
ing, play + noun | (you (pl, sing formal)) are doing + -ing, are going + -ing, are playing + noun | do + -
ing!, go + -ing!, play + noun! (pl, sing formal)
F R
v font; font de (they) do, make, go on/for + noun | (they) are doing, are making, are going on/for + noun | (they) do + -
ing, go + -ing, play + noun | (they) are doing + -ing, are going + -ing, are playing + noun
F R
v faisais; faisais de (I) used to do, used to make, used to go on/for + noun | (I) was doing, was making, was going on/for + 
noun | (you (sing informal)) used to do, used to make, used to go on/for + noun | (you (sing informal)) 
were doing, were making, were going on/for + noun; (I) used to do + -ing, used to go + -ing, used to play 
+ noun | (I) was doing + ing, was going + -ing, was playing + noun| (you (sing informal)) used to do + -
ing, used to go + -ing, used to play + noun | (you (sing informal)) were doing + -ing, were going + -ing, 
were playing + noun
F R
v faisait; faisait de (she, he, it, one) used to do, used to make, used to go on/for + noun | (she, he, it, one) was doing, was 
making, was going on/for + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) used to do, used to make, used to go 
on/for + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) were doing, were making, were going on/for + noun; (she, 
he, it, one) used to do + -ing, used to go + -ing, used to play + noun| (she, he, it, one) was doing + -ing, 
was going + -ing, was playing + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) used to do + -ing, used to go + -ing, 
used to play + noun| (we (informal, impersonal)) were doing + -ing, were going + -ing, were playing + 
noun
F R
26 det son his, her, its (m, f before a vowel or h) F R
det sa his, her, its (f) F R
det ses his, her, its, everyone's, one's (pl) F R
27 v mettre; se mettre à (+ noun) 
(+ infinitive)
(to) put (on) | putting (on); (to) start, begin (+ noun) (+ verb) | starting, beginning (+ noun) (+ verb) F O
v (aux) mis; se (aux) mis à (+ 
noun) (+ infinitive)
put (on) | (have, has) put (on); started, began (+ noun) (+ verb) | (have, has) started, begun (+ noun) (+ 
verb)
F O
28 det autre(s) other (m, f) (pl) F R
29 pron on everyone, you, one, (we (informal, impersonal)) F R
30 conj mais but F O
31 pron nous we (subj) | us / to us (emph) | ourself (reflex) | each other | one another (reciprocal)  F R
32 conj comme like, as F O
33 conj ou or F O
34 conj si if, whether F O
35 det leur their (m, f) F R
det leurs their (pl) F R
37 v dire; dire (à … de + 
infinitive)
(to) say, tell | saying, telling; (to) tell (someone + verb) | telling (someone + verb) F O
v dit |(aux) dit (she, he, it, one) says, tells | (she, he, it, one) is saying, is telling | said, told | (have, has) said, (have, has) 
told
F O
38 pron elle she, it (f) (subj) | her (emph) | herself (reflex) | each other | one another (reciprocal)  F R
pron elles they (f) (subj) F R
39 v devoir (to) have to, must | having to F R
v dois (I) have to, must | (you (sing informal)) have to, must F R
v doit (she, he, it, one) has to, must | (we (informal, impersonal)) have to, must F R
v devons (we) have to, must F R
v devez (you (pl, sing formal)) have to, must F R
v doivent (they) have to, must F R
n (mpl) devoirs homework F O
40 prep avant; avant de + infinitive before; before + verb F O

=== PDF page 63 ===
41 num deux two F R
adj deux two F R
42 det même*(s) same (m, f) (pl) F R
adv même** even F O
43 v prendre (to) take | taking F R
44 adv aussi also, too, as well F O
46 v donner (to) give | giving F O
47 adv bien well F R
48 pron où ? where? F R
49 n (f) fois time F R
50 pron vous you (pl, sing formal) (subj) | you (sing formal) (obj) | to you (sing formal) (indirect obj) | yourself (reflex) | each 
other | one another (reciprocal) 
F R
51 adv encore yet, again F O
52 adj nouveau new (m) F O
adj nouvelle new (f) F O
adj nouveaux new (mpl, mixed gender pl) F O
53 v aller (to) go | going F R
v vais (I) go | (I) am going F R
v vas (you (sing informal)) go | (you (sing informal)) are going F R
v va | va ! (she, he, it, one) goes | (she, he, it, one) is going | (we (informal, impersonal)) go | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) are going | go! (sing informal)
F R
v vont (they) go | (they) are going F R
54 pron ça that, it [informal] F O
55 prep entre between F O
56 adj premier first (m) F R
n (f) première year 12 F O
57 v vouloir (to) want (to) | wanting (to) F R
v veux (I) want (to) | (you (sing informal)) want (to) F R
v veut (she, he, it, one) wants (to) | (we (informal, impersonal)) want (to) F R
v voulons (we) want (to) F R
v voulez (you (pl, sing formal)) want (to) F R
v veulent (they) want (to) F R
v voudrais (I) would like | (you (sing informal)) would like F R
v voudrait (she, he, it, one) would like | (we (informal, impersonal)) would like F R
58 adv déjà already, yet F O
59 adj grand tall, big, large (m) F R
60 det mon my (m, f before a vowel or h) F R
det ma my (f) F R
det mes my (pl) F R
61 pron me/m' me (obj) | to me (indirect obj) | myself (reflex) F R
62 adv moins (…que/qu’)* less (…than) F R
adj moins (…que/qu’)**; moins 
de (+ num)
less (…than); less, fewer (than + num) F R
64 pron lui (to) him, (to) her, (to) it (m, f) (indirect obj) F R
65 n (m) temps time, weather F R
66 adv très very F O
67 v savoir (to) know (how to), can | knowing (how to) F R
v sais (I) know (how to), can | (you (sing informal)) know (how to), can F R
v sait (she, he, it, one) knows (how to), can | (we (informal, impersonal)) know (how to), can F R
v savons (we) know (how to), can F R
v savez (you (pl, sing formal)) know (how to), can F R
v savent (they) know (how to), can F R
69 v voir (to) see | seeing F R
v vois | vois ! (I) see | (I) am seeing | (you (sing informal)) see | (you (sing informal)) are seeing | see! (sing informal) F R
v voit (she, he, it, one) sees | (she, he, it, one) is seeing | (we (informal, impersonal)) see | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) are seeing
F R
v (aux) vu saw | (have, has) seen F R
70 det quelque(s) some (m, f) (pl) F R
71 prep sans without F R
72 n (f) raison reason F O
73 det notre our (m, f) F R
det nos our (pl) F R
75 adv non no, not F R
76 n (m) an year F R
77 n (m) monde world F O
78 n (m) jour day F R
79 n (m) monsieur Sir, Mr, (sing), gentleman F O
80 v demander; demander à ... 
(de + infinitive); se 
demander
(to) ask for | asking for; (to) ask someone (+ verb) | asking someone (+ verb); (to) wonder | wondering F O
81 adv alors so, well, then F O
82 prep après after F O
83 v trouver; se trouver (to) find | finding; (to) be situated | being situated F O
84 pron ne… personne* not anyone, no one F R
n (f) personne** person F O
87 adj dernier last (m) F O
88 v venir (to) come | coming F R
89 prep pendant during F O
90 v passer; se passer (to) spend time, pass | spending time, passing time; (to) happen | happening F O

=== PDF page 64 ===
91 adv (un) peu a bit, (a) little F O
94 adj bon good (m) F R
adj bonne good (f) F R
95 v comprendre (to) understand | understanding F O
99 n (f); n 
(f)(pl)
heure; heure(s) hour, time; o'clock F R
100 v rester (to) stay, remain | staying, remaining F O
101 adj seul alone (m) F R
102 n (f) année year F O
103 adv toujours always F O
105 v porter (to) wear, carry | wearing, carrying F O
106 v parler (to) speak, talk | speaking, talking F R
107 adj fort strong (m), loud F R
108 v montrer (to) show | showing F O
109 adv là there, here F O
110 adj certain certain, sure (m) F O
n (mpl) certains some people F O
111 n (f) fin end F O
112 pron tu you (sing informal) (subj) F R
113 v continuer (à/de + infinitive) (to) continue (+ verb), carry on (+ verb) | continuing (+ verb), carrying on (+ verb) F R
114 n (m) pays country F O
115 num trois three F O
116 v penser (à + noun) (à + 
infinitive) (de + noun) (de + 
infinitive)
(to) think (of + noun) (of + verb) (about + noun) (about + verb) | thinking (of + noun) (of + verb) (about + 
noun) (about + verb)
F O
117 n (m) lieu place F O
118 n (f) partie part, game, match F O
119 conj/adv quand | quand? when | when? F R
120 v suivre (to) follow | following F R
v suis** | suis ! (I) follow | (I) am following | (you (sing informal)) follow | (you (sing informal)) are following | follow! 
(sing informal)
F R
v suit (she, he, it, one) follows | (she, he, it, one) is following | (we (informal, impersonal)) follow | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) are following
F R
v (aux) suivi followed | (have, has) followed F R
121 prep contre against F O
122 prep sous under F R
123 n (m) côté side F O
124 adv ensemble together F O
125 n (f) chose thing F O
126 n (m, f) enfant child (m, f) F R
127 n (f) cause cause F O
128 n (f) politique politics F O
129 n (f) place room, space, square, place F O
130 adv seulement only F O
131 pron (à) moi (to) me (emph) F R
132 n (f) vie life F O
133 v connaître (to) know, be familiar with | knowing, being familiar with F R
v connais | connais ! (I) know, am familiar with | (you (sing informal)) know, are familiar with | know!, be familiar with! (sing 
informal)
F R
v connaît (she, he, it, one) knows, is familiar with | (we (informal, impersonal)) know, are familiar with F R
v/adj (aux) connu; connu knew, was familiar with | (have, has) known, (have, has) been familiar with; known F R
134 prep jusque to, up to, until F O
135 v croire (to) believe | believing F R
v crois | crois ! (I) believe | (I) am believing | (you (sing informal)) believe | (you (sing informal)) are believing | 
believe! (sing informal)
F R
v croit (she, he, it, one) believes | (she, he, it, one) is believing | (we (informal, impersonal)) believe | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) are believing
F R
v (aux) cru believed | (have, has) believed F R
136 n (m) homme man F O
138 adj petit short, small, little (m) F O
139 v commencer (à + infinitive) (to) start  (+ verb), begin (+ verb) | starting (+ verb), beginning (+ verb) F O
140 v compter (to) count | counting F O
143 adj droit right (m) F O
144 n (f) question question F R
145 conj donc so, therefore F O
146 det quel(le)(s) ? which? (m) (f) (pl) F R
147 adj général general (m) F O
148 n (m) moment moment F O
149 v entendre; s'entendre (avec 
…)
(to) hear | hearing; (to) get on, get along (with someone) | getting on, getting along (with someone) F R
150 adv beaucoup a lot F O
151 det chaque each, every F R
152 adj jeune young (m, f) F R
153 n (m) travail work (sing), job, task F O
154 n (f) femme woman, wife F O
155 v attendre (to) wait (for), expect | waiting (for), expecting F O
157 v appeler; s'appeler (to) call | calling; (to) be named | being named F O
160 n (m) gouvernement government F O
162 v devenir (to) become | becoming F O

=== PDF page 65 ===
163 v partir (to) leave | leaving F R
165 v décider (de + infinitive); se 
décider (à + infinitive)
(to) decide (+ verb) | deciding (+ verb); (to) make the decision (+ verb) | making the decision (+ verb) F O
167 adv ici here F R
168 pron ne… rien not anything, nothing F R
169 n (m) cours* course, lessons F O
170 n (fpl) affaires business, matters F O
171 n (m) nom full name, surname, name F R
172 n (f) famille family F O
174 v arriver; arriver à + infinitive (to) arrive | arriving; (to) manage + verb, succeed in + verb | managing + verb, succeeding in + verb F R
175 adj possible possible (m, f) F R
176 conj car because, for F O
177 v servir; se servir de (to) serve | serving; (to) use, make use of | using, making use of F O
178 n (m) mois month F O
179 adv ne… jamais never, not ever F R
183 n (m) besoin need F O
184 v revenir (to) come back, return | coming back, returning F O
186 n (m) moyen means, way F O
187 n (m) groupe group F O
188 n (m) problème problem F O
190 adv peut-être maybe, perhaps F O
191 n (f) vue view F O
192 adv maintenant now F O
193 pron pourquoi ? why? F R
194 adj meilleur(e)(s) better, best (m) (f) (pl) F R
adj le meilleur/la meilleure/les 
meilleur(e)s
the best (m/f/(f)pl) F O
195 adv trop too much, too many, too F O
197 n (m) ordre order F O
198 prep devant in front of F O
199 v recevoir (to) receive | receiving F R
v reçois | reçois ! (I) receive | (I) am receiving | (you (sing informal)) receive | (you (sing informal)) are receiving | 
receive! (sing informal)
F R
v reçoit (she, he, it, one) receives | (she, he, it, one) is receiving | (we (informal, impersonal)) receive | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) are receiving
F R
v (aux) reçu received | (have, has) received F R
200 v répondre (à + noun) (to) answer  (+ noun), reply to (+ noun) | answering  (+ noun), replying to (+ noun) F O
201 v vivre (to) live | living F O
202 adj long long (m) F O
adj longue long (f) F O
206 prep chez (to) (the place of), at (the place of), at, with F O
207 pron te/t' you (sing informal) (obj) | to you (sing informal) (indirect obj), yourself (sing informal) (reflex) F R
210 v accepter (to) accept, admit | accepting, admitting F O
212 adj simple simple (m, f) F O
213 det plusieurs several, many F R
214 det votre your (formal) (m, f) F R
det vos your (formal) (pl) F R
215 adj important important (m) F O
216 n (m) présent present F O
217 adv mieux better F R
219 v jouer (à/de + noun) (to) play (+ noun) | playing (+ noun) F R
220 n (m) mot word F O
223 n (f) situation situation F O
225 adv près nearby, close by, near F O
226 v choisir (to) choose | choosing F R
227 adj national national (m) F O
228 n (m) projet plan F O
230 adv puis then, so F O
232 n (m) train train F R
233 adv aujourd’hui today F O
234 pron comment ? how? F R
235 adv surtout especially, above all F O
236 n (mpl) gens people F O
237 adj propre clean, proper, own (m, f) F O
239 n (f) idée idea F O
240 prep selon according to F O
241 n (f) région region, area F O
242 v aimer (to) like, love | liking, loving F O
243 n (m) sens sense, meaning F O
245 n (f) semaine week F O
246 adv également also, too, as well, equally F R
248 n (f) façon way, manner F O
249 n (m) nombre number F O
250 v perdre; se perdre (to) lose | losing; (to) get lost | getting lost F R
251 adj français French (m) F R
252 v expliquer (to) explain | explaining F O
253 adj quatre four F R
num quatre four F O
257 v ouvrir (to) open | opening F R

=== PDF page 66 ===
258 v gagner (to) win, earn, gain | winning, earning, gaining F R
259 n (m) exemple example F O
260 n (f) ville town F O
263 n (f) histoire history, story F O
264 adj haut high (m) F O
265 adv ensuite next F O
268 n (m) président president (m) F R
269 v exister (to) exist | existing F O
270 adj sûr safe, sure (m) F O
273 n (m) bureau desk, office F R
274 adj mauvais bad, wrong (m) F O
276 adj mort* dead (m) F O
n (f) mort** death F O
277 adv mal* badly F R
adj mal** bad (m, f) F R
n (m) mal*** ache F O
278 v lire (to) read | reading F O
v (aux) lu read | (have, has) read F O
279 v réussir (à + infinitive) (à + 
noun)
(to) succeed (in + verb), pass (an exam) | succeeding (in + verb), passing (an exam) F O
280 n (m) marché market F O
282 adj international international (m) F O
283 v changer; se changer (to) change | changing; (to) get changed | getting changed F O
284 adv oui yes F O
285 adj public public (m) F O
287 adv souvent often F R
288 num cinq five F O
289 n (m) système system F O
290 v travailler (to) work | working F O
291 n (m) jeu game F R
292 adj vrai true (m) F R
294 n (f) madame Mrs, Ms, (sing), madam, lady F O
295 n (f) société society F O
296 adj difficile difficult (m, f) F O
297 pron quoi ? what? F R
298 n (f) entreprise company F O
301 adj social social (m) F O
303 v essayer (de + infinitive) (to) try (+ verb), attempt (+verb) | trying (+ verb), attempting (+ verb) F O
304 adj juste right, true, correct, fair (m, f) F O
305 adj étranger* foreign (m) F O
n (m) étranger** foreigner, stranger, abroad F O
307 n (m) million million F O
309 v sortir (to) go out, exit, take out, release | going out, exiting, taking out, releasing F O
310 n (m) prix price, prize F R
312 adv longtemps a long time, a long while F O
314 adj courant current, common (m) F R
315 n (m) intérêt interest F O
317 n (f) information information F O
320 n (f) liberté liberty, freedom F O
321 adv assez quite F O
325 n (f) maison house, home F R
326 adv d’abord first of all, firstly, to start with F O
327 v apprendre; apprendre à … (to) learn | learning; (to) teach someone | teaching someone F O
328 n (m) niveau level F O
329 v rencontrer (to) meet, run into | meeting, running into F O
330 det ton your (sing informal) (m, f before a vowel or h) F R
det ta your (sing informal) (f) F R
det tes your (sing informal) (pl) F R
332 v créer (to) create | creating F O
335 adj clair clear (m) F O
336 v chercher (to) look for | looking for F R
337 v entrer (to) enter, go in, come in │ entering, going in, coming in F O
338 v proposer; proposer de  + 
infinitive
(to) propose, offer | proposing, offering; (to) suggest + verb | suggesting + verb F O
339 v apporter (to) bring (something) | bringing (something) F O
340 n (m) programme schedule F O
341 adv loin far F O
342 n (f) ligne line F R
343 n (f) tête head F R
344 adj libre free (m) F O
345 v utiliser (to) use | using F O
348 adv tard late (something) F O
349 adv enfin finally F O
350 adj différent different (m) F O
351 n (f) sorte sort, kind F O
352 conj cependant however F O
355 n (f) action action F O
358 n (m) (f) livre book, pound F O
361 adv vraiment truly, really, very F O

=== PDF page 67 ===
362 n (m) doute doubt F O
368 v préparer; se préparer (to) prepare | preparing; (to) get ready | getting ready F O
369 n (f) forme form, shape F O
370 n (f) décision decision F O
372 num dix ten F O
373 n (m) produit product F O
374 adj américain American (m) F O
375 n (f) minute minute F O
380 adj prochain next (m) F O
382 v écrire (to) write | writing F R
v écris | écris ! (I) write | (I) am writing | (you (sing informal)) write | (you (sing informal)) are writing | write! (sing 
informal)
F R
v écrit | (aux) écrit (she, he, it, one) writes | (she, he, it, one) is writing | (we (informal, impersonal)) write | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) are writing | wrote | (have, has) written
F R
386 n (m) chef boss, cook (m) F O
388 n (m) effort effort F O
390 n (m) membre member F O
393 adj beau/bel beautiful (m) F O
adj belle beautiful (f) F O
adj beaux beautiful (mpl, mixed gender pl) F O
394 adj plein full (m) F O
396 v éviter (de + infinitive) (to) avoid (+ verb) | avoiding (+ verb) F O
397 n (m) soir evening F O
406 prep malgré despite, in spite of F O
410 adv parfois sometimes F O
412 adj sérieux conscientious, responsible (m) F R
413 v aider (… à + infinitive) (to) help (someone + verb) | helping (someone + verb) F O
415 v terminer (de + infinitive) (to) finish (+ verb), end | finishing (+ verb), ending F O
417 v espérer (to) hope (for) | hoping (for) F O
418 n (f) main hand F O
420 v arrêter (de + infinitive) (to) stop (+ verb) | stopping (+ verb) F O
421 n (m) retour return F O
422 adj prêt ready (m) F O
423 n (f) occasion chance, opportunity F O
425 v regarder (to) watch, look at | watching, looking at F O
428 n (m) résultat result, follow-up F O
429 v écouter (to) listen to | listening to F O
430 n (f) terre earth, world, soil, land F O
435 n (f) confiance confidence, trust F O
436 n (m) choix choice F O
438 n (f) chance luck F O
441 n (m) but goal, aim, objective, purpose F O
442 n (m) matin morning F O
443 adj grave serious, grave (m, f) F O
445 n (m) Européen European F R
450 num six six F O
451 adj nécessaire necessary, required (m, f) F O
452 n (f) activité activity F O
456 n (f) réponse reply, response, answer F O
457 n (f) aide help F O
466 v exprimer (to) express | expressing F O
467 n (m) ami friend (m) F O
470 n (f) moitié half F O
471 n (m) avenir future F O
472 n (m) argent money F O
474 n (mpl) yeux eyes F O
475 n (f) eau water F O
476 prep sauf except F O
477 n (f) école school F O
478 n (f) sécurité security, safety F R
480 n (f) lettre letter F O
481 adv presque almost, nearly F O
482 n (f) attention* attention F O
intj attention !** watch out! F R
484 n (m) futur future F O
487 v conduire (to) drive | driving F O
488 n (f) règle rule, ruler F O
489 n (f) poste post office F O
491 n (m) centre centre F O
501 n (m) passé past F O
502 n (m) âge age F O
504 v oublier (de + infinitive) (to) forget (+ verb) | forgetting (+ verb) F O
507 v quitter; se quitter (to) leave somewhere, take off | leaving somewhere, taking off; (to) leave each other | leaving each 
other
F O
509 n (f) population population F O
510 pron (à) toi (to) you (sing informal) (emph) F R
512 n (f) route road F O
513 adv tôt early F O
517 n (m) emploi job F O
520 n (m) journal newspaper F O

=== PDF page 68 ===
n (mpl) journaux newspapers F O
523 n (m) (f) tour turn, tour, tower F O
524 prep voilà right, there, here F O
526 v envoyer (to) send | sending F R
527 v partager (to) share | sharing F O
532 n (f) réalité reality F O
533 v interdire (à ...) (to) forbid, ban (from someone) | forbidding, banning (from someone) F O
534 v finir (de + infinitive) (to) end, finish | ending, finishing; (to) finish (+ verb) | finishing (+ verb) F R
537 v payer (to) pay (for) | paying (for) F O
542 n (f) nature nature F O
545 adj court* short (m) F O
546 n (m) parent parent F O
547 v tomber (to) fall | falling F O
548 n (m) départ departure F O
552 n (fpl) paroles lyrics F O
554 adj publique public (f) F O
555 adj faux false (m) F O
adj fausse false (f) F O
559 v intéresser + s/o inversion; 
s'intéresser (à + noun)
(to) find interesting | finding interesting; (to) be interested (in + noun) | being interested (in + noun) F O
561 n (m) corps body F O
562 n (f) matière subject F O
564 n (f) difficulté difficulty F O
568 n (m) cœur heart F R
569 n (m) père father F O
570 n (f) organisation organisation F O
572 adj noir black (m) F O
573 n (m) événement event F O
580 n (f) nuit night F O
581 adv partout everywhere F O
584 adj actuel current (m) F R
586 v signifier (to) mean | meaning F O
587 n (f) journée day F O
591 v tuer (to) kill | killing F R
593 adv rapidement quickly, rapidly F O
595 v réduire (to) reduce | reducing F O
597 v préférer (to) prefer | preferring F O
adj préféré favourite (m) F O
598 n (f) rue street F R
599 adj riche rich (m, f) F O
602 n (f) violence violence F O
603 n (m) siècle century F O
604 n (m) article article, item F O
605 v durer (to) last | lasting F O
607 adj gauche left (m, f) F R
608 n (f) solution solution F O
610 adj capable able, capable (m, f) F O
611 adj canadien Canadian (m) F O
612 n (f) erreur mistake, error F O
616 v se souvenir (de + noun) (to) remember (+ noun) | remembering (+ noun) F O
620 n (m) succès success F O
622 adj local local (m) F O
623 n (m) été summer F O
624 v inviter (to) invite | inviting F O
626 n (m) pied foot F O
629 n (f) fille girl, daughter F R
630 v répéter (to) repeat | repeating F O
631 n (m) texte text F O
633 n (f) chambre bedroom F O
636 v acheter (to) buy | buying F O
640 n (m) directeur head teacher, manager (m) F R
641 n (f) santé health F O
645 n (f) mère mother F O
650 n (m) endroit place, spot F O
652 adj impossible impossible (m, f) F O
660 n (f) date date F O
663 adj énorme enormous (m, f) F O
666 n (f) campagne countryside F O
667 v (aux) né was born | (have, has) been born F O
670 v participer à + noun (to) take part in + noun, participate in + noun | taking part in + noun, participating in + noun F O
671 adj vieux/vieil old (m) F O
adj vieille old (f) F O
672 adj rapide fast, quick (m, f) F O
675 adj essentiel essential (m) F O
678 adv environ about, thereabouts, or so F O
679 n (f) expérience experience F O
681 v découvrir (to) discover | discovering F O
691 adj frais fresh (m) F O
adj fraîche fresh (f) F O
695 v réserver (to) reserve, book, keep │ reserving, booking, keeping F O

=== PDF page 69 ===
696 n (f) porte door F R
699 adj pauvre poor (m, f) F O
701 v organiser; s'organiser (to) organise | organising; (to) get organised | getting organised F O
704 num cent one hundred F O
706 v prononcer (to) pronounce | pronouncing F O
708 adj blanc white (m) F O
adj blanche white (f) F O
710 v vendre (to) sell | selling F O
711 adv vite quickly, fast F R
712 n (f) langue language, tongue F O
713 adj dangereux dangerous (m) F R
715 n (f) importance importance F O
717 n (m) espoir hope F R
720 n (f) énergie energy F O
721 n (m) réseau network F O
722 v mourir (to) die | dying F O
v (aux) mort died | (have, has) died F O
723 adj faible weak (m, f) F O
724 v employer (to) use, employ | using, employing F O
725 n (f) possibilité possibility F O
726 adj spécial special (m) F O
735 n (m) fils son F O
736 intj d’accord okay, alright F O
737 v discuter (de + noun) (to) discuss, talk about (+ noun) | discussing, talking about (+ noun) F O
738 n (f) différence difference F O
739 v protéger (to) protect | protecting F O
741 n (m) avis opinion, mind F O
743 adj pire*(s) worse, worst (m, f) (pl) F R
adv pire** worse, less well F O
751 v remplir (to) fill (up), (in) | filling (up), (in) F O
754 v frapper (to) hit, knock | hitting, knocking F O
755 n (f) peur fear F R
757 v fermer (to) close, shut | closing, shutting F O
760 adj naturel natural (m) F O
762 n (m, f) auteur author F O
764 adj heureux happy (m) F O
765 n (f) crise crisis F O
766 n (m) numéro number F O
772 pron quelqu’un somebody, someone F O
774 n (f) banque bank F O
777 n (f) opinion opinion F O
778 n (f) classe class F O
782 n (f) intention intention F O
784 adj anglais English (m) F R
785 n (m) échange exchange F O
786 n (m) feu fire F O
787 num/adj neuf; neuf nine; (brand) new (m) F O
792 n (m) message message F O
793 v construire (to) build, construct | building, constructing F O
800 pron combien ? how many?, how much? F R
801 adj nul rubbish (m) F O
adj nulle rubbish (f) F O
803 adj cher expensive; dear (m) F O
805 prep derrière behind F O
807 adv immédiatement immediately F O
808 n (f) entrée entrance, starter F O
811 v couper (to) cut | cutting F O
812 n (f) salle room F O
813 n (f) pièce piece, room, play F O
814 n (f) équipe team F O
815 v situer; se situer (to) place, put, situate | placing, putting, situating; (to) be situated, take place | being situated, taking 
place
F O
822 adj facile easy (m, f) F O
823 v augmenter; s'augmenter (to) increase, raise | increasing, raising; (to) grow, expand | growing, expanding F O
826 n (m) octobre October F O
827 n (m, f) médecin doctor (m, f) F O
833 adj normal normal (m) F R
835 n (f) faute mistake, error, fault F O
837 v lever; se lever (to) lift, raise | lifting, raising; (to) get up, stand up, rise (sun) | getting up, standing up, rising (sun) F O
838 prep proche nearby, close F O
840 v imaginer (to) invent, imagine | inventing, imagining F O
842 adj pratique practical (m, f) F O
844 adj allemand German (m) F O
848 n (m) film film F O
852 n (f) ressource resource F O
853 v monter; monter (à + noun) (to) go up | going up; (to) climb (up + noun) | climbing (up + noun) F O
854 v promettre (à …) (de + 
infinitive)
(to) promise (someone) (+ verb) | promising (someone) (+ verb) F O
859 n (m) chemin way, path F O
868 n (m) mars March F O

=== PDF page 70 ===
869 adv tellement so much F O
870 n (m) espace space F O
871 adv demain; à demain ! tomorrow; see you tomorrow! F R
872 adv hier yesterday F O
877 num huit eight F O
881 n (f) voiture car F O
882 n (f) discussion discussion F O
886 n (m) sentiment feeling F O
887 n (f) tâche task, chore F O
889 intj euh er, um, uh F O
890 v raconter (to) tell, narrate | telling, narrating F O
891 n (m) décembre December F O
892 v développer (to) develop | developing F O
896 n (m) fruit fruit F O
897 v/adj (aux) ouvert; ouvert opened; open, unlocked (m) F O
900 n (m) avantage advantage F O
902 adj historique historic (m, f) F O
904 n (m) voyage trip, journey F O
905 num sept seven F O
907 n (f) vérité truth F O
908 adj commercial commercial, shopping (m) F O
913 n (f) culture culture F O
914 v cacher (to) hide | hiding F O
915 v prêter (to) lend | lending F O
917 n (m) client customer, client F O
919 n (m) progrès progress F O
920 n (m, f) secrétaire secretary F O
921 n (f) mer sea F O
924 n (f) liste list F O
925 v rentrer (to) go in, come in, come back (in), go back (in) | going in, coming in, coming back (in), going back (in) F O
928 v détruire (to) destroy | destroying F O
931 n (m) juin June F O
932 n (m) danger danger F O
935 n (m) transport transportation F O
939 n (m) janvier January F O
943 n (m) mai May F O
944 n (m) septembre September F O
945 n (m) environnement environment F O
946 v séparer; se séparer (to) separate | separating; (to) break up | breaking up F O
949 adj positif positive (m) F R
950 n (m, f) scientifique scientist F O
955 n (f) carte menu, map, card F O
960 v étudier (to) study | studying F O
965 adj complet full, complete (m) F O
967 n (m) amour love F O
969 v menacer (de + infinitive) (to) threaten (+ verb) | threatening (+ verb) F O
971 n (f) réunion meeting F O
973 n (f) maladie illness F O
976 n (f) construction construction, building F O
979 n (m) voisin neighbour F O
982 n (m) novembre November F O
984 v coûter (to) cost | costing F O
987 adj rouge red (m, f) F O
991 n (m) bord edge, side F O
995 n (f) éducation education F O
999 v retourner (to) return, go back, turn over, turn around | returning, going back, turning over, turning around F O
1002 n (m) animal animal, pet F R
n (mpl) animaux animals, pets F O
1003 adj utile useful (m, f) F O
1008 num mille thousand F O
1015 n (m) salaire salary, wage F O
1016 n (f) lecture reading F O
1019 n (f) table table F O
1022 n (m) avril April F O
1024 n (f) ferme farm, firm F O
1029 adj dur* hard (m) F O
adv dur** hard F O
1030 n (f) application/appli application/app F O
1036 n (f) communication communication F O
1038 n (m) manque lack F O
1040 v traverser (to) cross | crossing F O
1043 n (m) frère brother F O
1044 n (m) mardi; à mardi ! Tuesday; see you on Tuesday! F O
1046 n (m) vote vote F O
1048 v regretter (to) be sorry, regret | being sorry, regretting F O
1053 v surprendre (to) surprise | surprising F O
1056 v améliorer (to) improve | improving F O
1059 n (f) lumière light F O
1060 adj vert green (m) F O
1064 n (m) étudiant student F O

=== PDF page 71 ===
1066 adj malade ill (m, f) F O
1068 n (m, f) élève pupil, student (m, f) F R
1070 intj merci thank you F O
1072 n (f) visite visit, tour F O
1074 n (f) émission TV programme F O
1075 n (f) arrivée arrival F O
1077 n (m, f) partenaire partner F O
1083 n (f) influence influence F O
1086 n (m) vendredi; à vendredi ! Friday; see you on Friday! F O
1090 n (m) nord north F O
1091 n (m) lundi; à lundi ! Monday; see you on Monday! F O
1096 n (f) vente sale F O
1099 n (m, f) collègue colleague F O
1103 prep voici here is F O
1108 v examiner (to) examine | examining F O
1109 n (m) soin care F O
1112 n (m) jeudi; à jeudi ! Thursday; see you on Thursday! F O
1114 n (f) science science F O
1117 adj demi half F O
1123 v emprunter (à ...) (to) borrow (from someone) | borrowing (from someone) F O
1125 v traduire (to) translate | translating F R
1127 n (m) millier thousand F O
1128 v emporter (to) take with, take away | taking with, taking away F O
1131 adj industriel industrial (m) F O
1136 n (m) février February F O
1137 n (f) mode way, fashion F O
1139 n (f) musique music F O
1146 n (f) physique physics F O
1150 n (m) professeur/prof teacher (m) F O
1156 intj dommage ! what a shame! F O
1161 n (f) note mark, grade F O
1167 n (m) couple couple F O
1168 n (m) mercredi; à mercredi ! Wednesday; see you on Wednesday! F O
1169 adj régional regional (m) F O
1174 n (f) sortie exit F O
1176 v décrire (to) describe | describing F R
v décris | décris! (I) describe | (I) am describing | (you (sing informal)) describe | (you (sing informal)) are describing | 
describe! (sing informal)
F O
v décrit | (aux) décrit (she, he, it, one) describes | (she, he, it, one) is describing | (we (informal, impersonal)) describe | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) are describing | described | (have, has) described
F O
1178 adj récent recent (m) F R
1179 n (f) télévision/télé television/TV F O
1183 adj égal equal (m) F O
1186 v habiter (to) live (somewhere) | living (somewhere) F O
1187 n (m) quartier district, quarter F O
1192 n (f) université university F O
1193 v rire (to) laugh | laughing F R
v ris | ris ! (I) laugh | (I) am laughing | (you (sing informal)) laugh | (you (sing informal)) are laughing | laugh! (sing 
informal)
F R
v rit (she, he, it, one) laughs | (she, he, it, one) is laughing | (we (informal, impersonal)) laugh | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) are laughing
F R
v (aux) ri laughed | (have, has) laughed F R
1194 adv facilement easily F O
1199 n (f) urgence emergency F O
1200 n (f) clé key F O
1202 v jeter (to) throw | throwing F R
1203 adj religieux religious (m) F O
1205 adj disponible available (m, f) F O
1208 adv bientôt; à bientôt !     soon; see you soon! F R
1210 n (m) mariage marriage, wedding F O
1211 n (f) couleur colour F O
1216 adj bleu blue (m) F O
1217 adv dehors outside F O
1219 adj actif active, energetic (m) F O
1221 n (f) habitude habit F O
1222 adv récemment recently F O
1225 adj excellent excellent (m) F O
1226 adj moral moral (m) F O
1227 n (m) accident accident F O
1231 v fabriquer (to) manufacture, produce, make | manufacturing, producing, making F O
1234 adj extraordinaire extraordinary (m, f) F O
1235 n (m) dimanche; à dimanche ! Sunday; see you on Sunday! F O
1238 v enregistrer (to) record, save | recording, saving F O
1239 adj moderne modern (m, f) F O
1240 n (m) parc park F O
1242 n (m) sud south F O
1244 adj intéressant interesting (m) F O
1245 n (f) île island F O
1247 n (f) carrière career F O
1248 v voter (to) vote | voting F O

=== PDF page 72 ===
1253 n (m) bras arm F O
1256 v rechercher (to) look for, collect | looking for, collecting F O
1258 n (m) lendemain next day F O
1262 n (m) roman novel F O
1264 n (m) facteur postman F O
1265 n (m) policier policeman F O
n (f) policière policewoman F O
1273 num vingt twenty F O
1287 n (m) bateau boat, ship F O
1288 n (m) printemps spring F O
1289 n (f) course race, shopping F O
n (fpl) courses food shopping F O
1290 n (m) exercice written exercise, physical exercise F O
1292 n (m) visage face F O
1293 n (f) droite right F O
1295 n (m) village village F O
1296 adj britannique British (m, f) F O
1300 n (f) leçon lesson F O
1305 n (f) naissance birth F O
1307 adj froid cold (m) F O
1308 n (m) hôpital hospital F O
1310 adj terrible terrible, dreadful (m) F O
1313 n (m) rêve dream F O
1318 adj quotidien daily (m) F O
1324 n (m) après-midi afternoon F O
1326 n (m) juillet July F O
1328 n (m) candidat candidate F O
1331 adj fier proud (m) F O
1333 n (m) habitant resident (m) F O
1335 n (m) mur wall F O
1337 n (m, f) journaliste journalist F O
1338 v manger (to) eat | eating F R
1341 adj travailleur hard-working (m) F O
adj travailleuse hard-working (f) F O
1349 adj populaire popular (m, f) F O
1351 n (f) participation participation F R
1355 n (m) samedi; à samedi ! Saturday; see you on Saturday! F O
1357 adj fou crazy (m) F O
adj folle crazy (f) F O
1366 n (m) téléphone telephone F O
1371 n (f) tradition tradition F O
1374 n (m) arrêt stop F O
1375 n (m) concours entrance exam, competition F O
1378 v visiter (to) visit | visiting F O
1384 v désirer (to) want, desire | wanting, desiring F O
1385 n (f) côte coast F O
1386 n (f) génération generation F O
1387 n (m) vent wind F O
1388 n (f) technologie technology F O
1389 v inquiéter; s'inquiéter (de + 
noun)
(to) bother, disturb | bothering, disturbing; (to) be worried (about + noun) | being worried (about + 
noun)
F O
1392 adj inquiet worried, anxious (m) F O
adj inquiète worried, anxious (f) F O
1398 v ressembler à + noun; se 
ressembler
(to) look like + noun | looking like + noun; (to) look alike | looking alike F O
1399 n (f) station station F O
1400 v supporter (to) tolerate, bear, put up with | tolerating, bearing, putting up with F O
1406 n (m, f) propriétaire owner F O
1409 n (m) avion aeroplane F O
1412 n (f) photo photo F R
1420 n (m) appareil apparatus, device F O
1425 n (m) bois* wood F O
1429 adj idéal ideal (m) F O
1430 n (m) chômage unemployment F O
1431 n (m) courage courage F O
1433 n (m) entretien interview, maintenance F O
1434 v encourager (à + infinitive) (to) encourage (+ verb) | encouraging (+ verb) F O
1435 n (m) kilomètre kilometre F O
1437 n (f) identité identity F O
1445 n (m) août August F O
1447 v courir (to) run | running F R
v cours** | cours !** (I) run | (I) am running | (you (sing informal)) run | (you (sing informal)) are running | run! (sing informal) F R
v court** (she, he, it, one) runs | (she, he, it, one) is running | (we (informal, impersonal)) run | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) are running
F R
v (aux) couru ran | (have, has) run F R
1448 n (m) examen exam F O
1449 n (m) personnage character, individual, person F O
1456 n (m) tableau board, picture, painting F O
1461 adj final final F O

=== PDF page 73 ===
1462 n (m) site site F O
1467 n (f) inquiétude worry, anxiety F O
1472 num quinze fifteen F O
1473 adj vide empty (m, f) F O
1476 v sourire (to) smile | smiling F O
v sourit (she, he, it, one) smiles | (she, he, it, one) is smiling | (we (informal, impersonal)) smile | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) are smiling
F O
1482 n (f) usine factory F O
1485 n (m) employé employee, worker F O
1488 adj évident obvious (m) F O
1490 n (f) fête party, festival F O
1494 n (f) réduction reduction F O
1495 adj culturel cultural (m) F O
1500 n (f) taille size, height F R
1503 n (m) automne autumn F O
1507 v diminuer (to) lower, decrease | lowering, decreasing F O
1510 adj juif Jewish (m) F O
1514 v communiquer (to) pass on, communicate | passing on, communicating F O
1520 adj négatif negative (m) F O
1524 n (m) bruit noise F O
1526 n (f) radio radio F O
1530 n (f) soirée evening F O
1531 n (m) vol flight, theft F O
1532 v marcher (to) walk, work | walking, working F O
1534 n (m) mètre metre F O
1538 n (m) ciel sky F O
1542 n (f) seconde second, year 11 F O
1551 n (m) gaz gas F O
1552 n (m) acteur actor (m) F O
1554 n (f) cour courtyard, playground F R
1556 n (m) souci worry, concern F O
1557 n (m) expert expert F O
1558 n (f) sœur sister F O
1560 v comparer (to) compare | comparing F O
1566 adj médical medical (m) F O
1568 n (f) colère anger F O
1574 adj traditionnel traditional (m) F R
1575 n (m) quart quarter F O
1580 n (m, f) adulte adult F O
1582 n (m) métier job, occupation F O
1584 v peser (to) weigh | weighing F O
1585 n (mpl) médias media F O
1586 n (m) hiver winter F O
1589 n (m) mari husband F O
1599 n (m) garçon boy, waiter F O
1600 adj parfait perfect (m) F O
1603 n (f) quatrième year 9 F O
1604 n (f) fenêtre window F O
1607 n (f) menace threat F O
1609 n (f) jeunesse youth F O
1610 v voler (à ...) (to) fly, steal (from someone) | flying, stealing (from someone) F O
1614 adj inutile useless (m, f) F O
1616 n (m) poisson fish F O
1617 n (f) révolution revolution F O
1622 adj familial family (m) F O
1623 n (m) cinéma cinema F O
1626 n (m) enseignement education, teaching F O
1639 v corriger (to) correct, mark | correcting, marking F O
1646 num trente thirty F O
1650 n (m) instrument instrument F O
1651 n (f) indépendance independence F O
1652 n (m) tort wrong F O
1659 n (f) drogue drug F O
1664 num douze twelve F O
1666 adj espagnol Spanish (m) F O
1667 n (f) saison season F O
1672 n (m) dos back F O
1678 v rêver (à/de + noun) (to) dream (about + noun) | dreaming (about + noun) F O
1686 v marier; se marier (avec) (to) marry | marrying; (to) get married (to) | getting married (to) F O
1687 n (m) spectacle sight, show F O
1689 adj célèbre famous (m) F O
1690 n (m) ouest west F O
1694 n (m) accent accent F O
1697 n (m) concert concert F O
1699 n (f) religion religion F O
1701 n (m) théâtre theatre, drama F O
1704 n (m) équipement equipment F O
1705 v descendre; descendre de + 
noun
(to) go down, ride down, drive down | going down, riding down, driving down; (to) get off + noun, get 
out of + noun | getting off + noun, getting out of + noun
F O
1706 n (m) patron boss F O

=== PDF page 74 ===
1708 n (m) abri shelter F O
1709 n (f) recette recipe F O
1710 adv généralement generally F O
1713 n (m) soleil sun F O
1719 n (m) dialogue dialogue F O
1720 n (m) thème theme, topic F O
1724 n (f) forêt forest F O
1725 n (m) outil tool F O
1726 n (f) vacances holiday F O
1728 n (m) défi challenge F O
1731 adj calme calm, quiet (m, f) F O
1732 n (f) montagne mountain F O
1736 n (m) magasin shop F O
1738 n (m) écrivain writer F O
1744 n (m) chien dog F O
1747 n (f) conversation conversation F O
1753 n (m) euro euro F O
1757 n (f) compétence competence, skill F O
1763 adj sain healthy (m) F O
1764 v intégrer; s'intégrer (to) incorporate, integrate, include| incorporating, integrating, including; (to) become integrated, fit in | 
becoming integrated, fitting in
F O
1771 n (f) boîte box F O
1774 n (m) hôtel hotel F O
1777 adv là-bas over there, out there F O
1782 n (f) église church F O
1791 n (f) découverte discovery F O
1797 n (m, f) artiste artist F O
1798 n (m) coin corner F O
1801 n (m) uniforme uniform F O
1803 n (f) grève strike F O
1815 n (f) surprise surprise F O
1818 n (f) capitale capital city F O
1820 v chanter (to) sing | singing F O
1824 n (f) neige snow F O
1829 n (m) goût taste, flavour F O
1832 n (f) catastrophe catastrophe, disaster F O
1835 n (f) manifestation demonstration, event F O
1836 v dormir (to) sleep | sleeping F O
1837 n (m) lit bed F O
1838 n (f) bouche mouth F O
1841 adj content glad, pleased (m) F O
1843 adj triste sad (m, f) F O
1849 n (m) logement accommodation F O
1852 adj chaud hot, warm (m) F O
1856 v progresser (to) progress | progressing F R
1859 adj strict strict (m) F O
1860 n (m) club club F O
1873 n (m) rendez-vous appointment F O
1875 n (f) planète planet F O
1879 v boire (to) drink | drinking F R
v bois** | bois ! (I) drink | (I) am drinking | (you (sing informal)) drink | (you (sing informal)) are drinking | drink! (sing 
informal)
F R
v boit (she, he, it, one) drinks | (she, he, it, one) is drinking | (we (informal, impersonal)) drink | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) are drinking
F R
v (aux) bu drank | (have, has) drunk F R
1881 n (f) caisse checkout F O
1884 n (f) oreille ear F O
1886 n (m) café café, coffee F O
1887 n (f) annonce announcement F O
1889 n (m) pont bridge F O
1895 adj chrétien Christian (m) F R
1898 n (f) égalité equality F O
1906 n (m) match match F O
1916 n (m) billet ticket F O
1925 n (f) adresse address F O
1951 n (f) pauvreté poverty F O
1952 n (m) bâtiment building F O
1954 n (m) médicament medicine, drug F O
1959 n (m) véhicule vehicle F O
1963 n (f) personnalité personality F O
1967 n (m) stade stadium, stage F O
1972 n (m) bonjour hello, good morning F O
1983 n (f) dame lady F O
1986 n (f) faim hunger F R
1987 v excuser (de/pour + noun); 
s'excuser (de/pour + noun)
(to) excuse (for + noun), forgive (for + noun) | excusing (for + noun), forgiving (for + noun); (to) apologise 
(for + noun) | apologising (for + noun)
F O
1988 v recommander (to) recommend | recommending F O
1993 adj scolaire school (m, f) F O
1997 adj inquiétant worrying, disturbing (m) F O
1999 n (m) style style F R

=== PDF page 75 ===
2006 n (m) climat climate F O>
2011 n (m) sport sport F O>
2018 adv normalement normally F O>
2043 n (f) anniversaire birthday F O>
2085 n (m) adolescent/ado teenager, adolescent F O>
2111 n (m) arbre tree F O>
2113 n (m) aéroport airport F O>
2116 n (m) collège secondary school F O>
2142 n (f) chanson song F O>
2160 v coucher; se coucher (to) lie down; sleep | lying down, sleeping; (to) go to bed, set (sun) | going to bed, setting (sun) F O>
2166 adj drôle funny (m, f) F O>
2170 v célébrer (to) celebrate | celebrating F O>
2186 adj probable probable, likely F O>
2191 n (m) plastique plastic F O>
2194 v voyager (to) travel (around) | travelling (around) F O>
2201 n (m) ordinateur computer F O>
2216 n (m) musée museum F O>
2245 adj musulman Muslim (m) F O>
2273 num cinquante fifty F O>
2284 n (m) jardin garden F O>
2285 n (f) nourriture food F O>
2296 n (mpl) cheveux hair F O>
2298 n (m) cadeau present, gift F O>
2305 n (f) fleur flower F O>
2309 n (m) vin wine F O>
2322 v adorer (to) really like, love, adore | really liking, loving, adoring F O>
2323 n (m) appartement apartment, flat F O>
2336 n (m) restaurant restaurant F O>
2343 n (m) sac bag, sack F O>
2365 n (m)/v dîner; dîner dinner; (to) have dinner F O>
2372 adj malheureux unhappy, sad, unfortunate, regrettable F O>
2383 n (m) vêtement garment, item or article of clothing F O>
2398 adj joli pretty, attractive (m) F O>
2421 n (m) écran screen F O>
2436 num quarante forty F O>
2447 num onze eleven F O>
2465 n (m) alcool alcohol F O>
2470 adj gratuit free (of charge) (m) F O>
2472 n (f) jambe leg F O>
2475 n (m) week-end weekend F O>
2483 n (m) midi noon F R
2507 n (m) lait milk F O>
2509 adj intelligent intelligent (m) F O>
2511 n (f) bibliothèque library F O>
2572 adj lent slow F O>
2580 n (f) glace ice cream, ice F O>
2581 n (f) gare station, railway station F O>
2588 n (f) informatique computer science, computing F O>
2602 n (m) foot(ball) football, soccer F O>
2611 n (f) vidéo video F O>
2618 n (f) cuisine cooking, kitchen F O>
2623 v fumer (to) smoke | smoking F O>
2625 n (f) viande meat F O>
2653 n (m) touriste tourist F O>
2670 adj sportif athletic, competitive, sporty, sporting (m) F O>
2693 n (f) plage beach F O>
2724 n (m)/v déjeuner; déjeuner lunch; (to) have lunch F O>
2725 v disputer; se disputer (to) scold, tell off | scolding, telling off; (to) argue │ arguing F O>
2729 n (m) salon lounge, living room F O>
2802 n (m) pain bread F O>
2816 n (m) lycée college, sixth form F O>
2832 adj gentil kind (m) F O>
2841 adj agréable pleasant, nice, agreeable (m, f) F O>
2855 n (f) cigarette cigarette F O>
2882 n (m) déchets rubbish F O>
2898 v détester (to) hate, detest | hating, detesting F O>
2906 adj sale dirty (m, f) F O>
2929 n (m) boulot work, job F O>
2934 v danser (to) dance | dancing F O>
2948 n (m) repas meal F O>
2993 adj super great F O>
3011 v poster (to) post | posting F O>
3020 n (m) copain friend (m), boyfriend F O>
n (f) copine friend, girlfriend F O>
3073 n (f) pollution pollution F O>
3117 n (m) légume vegetable F O>
3148 n (f) Mademoiselle Miss, Ms, (sing), miss F O>
3151 num soixante sixty F O>
3229 adj fatigué tired (m) F O>
3245 num treize thirteen F O>

=== PDF page 76 ===
3251 n (m) chanteur singer F R
3285 num seize sixteen F O>
3322 n (f) star star, celebrity F O>
3359 num quatorze fourteen F O>
3362 adj célibataire single, unmarried (m, f) F O>
3387 n (m) cousin cousin F O>
3399 n (m) inconvénient snag, drawback, disadvantage, inconvenience F O>
3419 n (f) chaise chair F O>
3438 n (fpl) maths mathematics/maths F O>
3441 n (m) temple temple F O>
3453 n (m) minuit midnight F O>
3458 n (m) bain bath, bathing F O>
3503 v laver; se laver (to) wash (something) | washing (something); (to) get washed | getting washed F O>
3510 n (m) château castle, palace F O>
3517 n (m) thé tea F R
3613 adj handicapé disabled (m) F O>
3614 n (f) boisson drink, beverage F O>
3628 n (m) oncle uncle F O>
3636 n (m) apprentissage apprenticeship F O
3714 intj bienvenue ! welcome F O>
3835 adj timide timid, shy, bashful (m, f) F R
3858 n (m) festival festival F O
3872 adj génial great, brilliant (m) F O>
3891 n (f) tante aunt F O>
3938 intj bonsoir good evening F O>
4002 n (m) portable mobile phone, laptop F O>
4007 n (m) stage work experience F O>
4094 n (m) dictionnaire dictionary F O>
4164 adj sympathique/sympa nice, kind, friendly (m, f) F O>
4215 n (f) toilette washing, toilet, lavatory, bathroom, restroom F O>
4216 n (m) autobus/bus bus F O>
4369 adj affreux dreadful, awful, horrible (m) F O>
4377 n (m) serveur waiter, server F O>
4451 v/adj (aux) interdit; interdit prohibited, banned; prohibited, banned (m) F O>
4452 n (m) brouillard fog, mist, haze F O
4475 n (m) fromage cheese F O>
4506 n (m, f) bénévole volunteer F O>
4594 n (m) vélo bike, bicycle F O>
4659 n (f) soif thirst F O>
4670 n (m) pantalon trousers F O>
4845 n (m) gâteau cake F O>
n/a n (m) aidant carer F O>
n/a adj amusant funny, fun, enjoyable, amusing (m) F O>
n/a n (f) Angleterre England F O>
n/a adj bavard chatty, talkative (m) F O>
n/a n (m) beau-père step-father, father-in-law F O>
n/a n (f) belle-mère step-mother, mother-in-law F O>
n/a adj bi(sexuel) bi(sexual) (m) F O>
n/a n (m) blog blog F O>
n/a adj bouddhiste Buddhist (m, f) F O>
n/a n (f) boulangerie bakery F O>
n/a adj brun brown (m) F O
n/a n (m) camping camping F O>
n/a n (f) célébrité celebrity F O>
n/a v chatter/tchatter (to) chat | chatting F O>
n/a n (m) défilé parade, procession F O>
n/a adj désolé sorry (m) F O>
n/a adj embêtant annoying (m) F O>
n/a adj ennuyeux boring (m) F O>
n/a adj équilibré balanced (m) F O>
n/a n (m) fast-food fast food F O>
n/a intj félicitations congratulations F O>
n/a adj férié public holiday (m) F O>
n/a n (fpl) frites chips F O>
n/a adj gay gay (m, f) F O>
n/a n (f) géographie geography F O>
n/a adj hétéro straight, heterosexual (m, f) F O>
n/a n (m) influenceur influencer F O>
n/a n (m) internet internet F O>
n/a n (m) mail/e-mail e-mail F O>
n/a adj méchant nasty, naughty, mean (m) F O>
n/a n (f) mosquée mosque F O>
n/a n (f) natation swimming F O>
n/a adj non-binaire non-binary (m, f) F O>
n/a n (m) PACS civil partnership F O>
n/a adv parce que/qu' because F O>
n/a adj paresseux lazy (m) (mpl, mixed gender pl) F O>
n/a n (m) passe-temps hobby F O>
n/a adj passionnant exciting, thrilling (m) F O>
n/a n (m) petit-déjeuner breakfast F O>

=== PDF page 77 ===
n/a n (f) piscine swimming pool F O>
n/a v polluer (to) pollute │ polluting F O>
n/a n (f) poubelle rubbish bin F O>
n/a n (f) promenade walk F O>
n/a adj queer queer (m, f) F O>
n/a n (m) réchauffement warming F O>
n/a n (f) récré(ation) break (time) F O>
n/a n (m) recyclage recycling F O>
n/a v recycler (to) recycle | recycling F O>
n/a v se relaxer (to) relax | relaxing F O>
n/a n (m) selfie selfie F O>
n/a n (m) shopping shopping F O>
n/a n (m) SMS SMS F O>
n/a n (m) streaming streaming F O>
n/a n (m) stylo pen F O>
n/a n (m) supermarché supermarket F O>
n/a n (f) synagogue synagogue F O>
n/a v télécharger (to) download | downloading F O>
n/a adj transgenre trans (m, f) F O>
n/a v vapoter (to) vape | vaping F O>
n/a adj végan vegan (m) F O>
n/a adj végétarien vegetarian (m) F O>
n/a mwp il y a | il y avait | il y aura there is, ago | there are | there was | there were | there used to be | there is going to be | there will 
b
F R
n/a mwp à cause de because of F O>
n/a mwp à gauche on the left F O>
n/a mwp au revoir goodbye F O>
n/a mwp aussi…que/qu' as…as F R
n/a mwp ça m'est égal I'm not bothered F O>
n/a mwp ça va / ça va ? It's fine, I'm fine, it's OK/how's it going?, how are you? F O>
n/a mwp en ce moment at the moment F O>
n/a mwp en retard late F O>
n/a mwp est-ce que/est-ce qu' ? questioning device F R
n/a mwp feu d'artifice firework display F O>
n/a mwp il est + time it is/it's + time F R
n/a mwp il fait (beau) it is/it's (nice) F R
n/a mwp il faut + infinitive it is/it’s necessary + verb, must + verb F R
n/a mwp il pleut it rains | it's raining F R
n/a mwp mariage du même sexe same sex marriage F O>
n/a mwp par contre on the other hand F O>
n/a mwp s'il te plaît/s'il vous plaît please (informal)/please (formal) F O>
n/a mwp tout le monde everyone, everybody F O>
n/a n (f) Fête Nationale Bastille Day, French national holiday F c
n/a n (fpl) Pyrénées the Pyrenees F c
n/a n (f) Méditerranée the Mediterranean F c
n/a n (m) Aïd Eid F c
n/a n (fpl) Alpes Alps F c
n/a n (m) baccalauréat/bac high school final exam (like A levels) F c
n/a n (f) Belgique Belgium F c
n/a n (m) Canada Canada F c
n/a n (f) France France F c
n/a n (f) La Réunion Reunion Island F c
n/a n (m) le Tour de France Tour de France F c
n/a n (f) Manche English Channel F c
n/a n (m) Maroc Morocco F c
n/a n (m) Noël Christmas F c
n/a n (m) Pâques Easter F c
n/a n (m) Paris Paris F c
n/a n (m) Québec Quebec F c
n/a n (f) Saint Valentin Valentine's Day F c
n/a n (m) Sénégal Senegal F c
n/a n (f) Suisse Switzerland F c
R = Required
O = Optional within the top 2000 words
O> = Optional outside the top 2000 words

=== PDF page 78 ===
rank frequency
part of speech
headword
English equivalent
Tier H
Selection principle
1 det le/l'* the (m) H R
det la/l'* the (f) H R
det les* the (pl) H R
pron le/l'** him, it (m) (obj) H R
pron la/l'** her, it (f) (obj) H R
pron les** them (m, f) (obj) H R
2 det de*/d'* indefinite article following a verb in negative or expression of quantity, partitive article following a verb in 
negative or expression of quantity
H R
det du*/de l'* some (of the) (m) H R
det de la*/de l'* some (of the) (f) H R
det des* plural indefinite article, some (of the) (pl) H R
prep de**/d'** of, from H R
prep du**/de l'** of the, from (the) (m) H R
prep de la**/de l'** of the, from (the) (f) H R
prep des** of the, from (the) (pl) H R
3 det un* a/an (m) H R
det une a/an (f) H R
num un** one H R
4 prep à at, to, in, on H R
prep au/à l' at the, to the, in the, on the (m) H R
prep à la/à l' at the, to the, in the, on the (f) H R
prep aux at the, to the, in the, on the (pl) H R
5 v être (to) be | being H R
v suis* (I) am | (I) am being | (I) have been H R
v es (you (sing informal)) are | (you (sing informal)) are being | (you (sing informal)) have been H R
v est* (she, he, it, one) is | (she, he, it, one) is being | (she, he, it, one) has been | (we (informal, impersonal)) 
are | (we (informal, impersonal)) are being | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been
H R
v sommes (we) are | (we) are being | (we) have been H R
v êtes (you (pl, sing formal)) are | (you (pl, sing formal)) are being | (you (pl, sing formal)) have been H R
v sont (they) are | (they) are being | (they) have been H R
v (aux) été was | (have, has) been H R
v étais (I) was + adjectival complement | (I) used to be | (I) was being | (you (sing informal)) were + adjectival 
complement | (you (sing informal)) used to be | (you (sing informal)) were being
H R
v était (she, he, it, one) was + adjectival complement | (she, he, it, one) used to be | (she, he, it, one) was 
being | (we (informal, impersonal)) were + adjectival complement | (we (informal, impersonal)) used to 
be | (we (informal, impersonal)) were being
H R
v serais (I) would be | you (sing informal)) would be H R
v serait (she, he, it, one) would be | (we (informal, impersonal)) would be H R
v serai (I) will be | (I) am going to be H R
v seras (you (sing informal)) will be | (you (sing informal)) are going to be H R
v sera (she, he, it, one) will be | (she, he, it, one) is going to be | (we (informal, impersonal)) will be | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) are going to be
H R
v Sois… ! Be…! (sing informal) H R
v Soyez… ! Be…! (pl, sing formal) H R
v étant being H R
6 conj et and H O
7 prep en* in, by, to H R
pron en** of it, about it (m, f) | of them, about them (m, f) H R
8 v avoir (to) have | having H R
v ai (I) have | (I) am having | (I) have been having H R
v as (you (sing informal)) have | (you (sing informal)) are having | (you (sing informal)) have been having H R
v a (she, he, it, one) has | (she, he, it, one) is having | (she, he, it, one) has been having | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) have | (we (informal, impersonal)) are having | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been 
having
H R
v avons (we) have | (we) are having | (we) have been having H R
v avez (you (pl, sing formal)) have | (you (pl, sing formal)) are having | (you (pl, sing formal)) have been having H R
v ont (they) have | (they) are having | (they) have been having H R
v (aux) eu had | (have, has) had H R
v avais (I) had | (I) used to have | (I) was having | (you (sing informal)) had | (you (sing informal)) used to have 
| (you (sing informal)) were having
H R
v avait (she, he, it, one) had | (she, he, it, one) used to have | (she, he, it, one) was having | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) had | (we (informal, impersonal)) used to have | (we (informal, impersonal)) were having
H R
v aurais (I) would have | (you (sing informal)) would have H R
v aurait (she, he, it, one) would have | (we (informal, impersonal)) would have H R
v aurai (I) will have | (I) am going to have H R
v auras (you (sing informal)) will have | (you (sing informal)) are going to have H R
v aura (she, he, it, one) will have | (she, he, it, one) is going to have | (we (informal, impersonal)) will have | 
(we (informal, impersonal)) is going to have
H R
v ayant having H R
9 pron que*/qu'* | que*/qu'* ? what, that | what? H R
conj que**/qu'** that H R
adv ne… que only, nothing but H R
10 prep pour for, in order to H R
GCSE French (8652) - Higher tier vocabulary


=== PDF page 79 ===
11 prep dans in H R
12 det ce/cet/c' this, that, it (m) H R
det cette this, that (f) H R
det ces these, those H R
13 pron il he, it (m) (subj) H R
pron ils they (m, mixed gender) (subj) H R
14 pron qui | qui ? who, that | who? H R
16 prep sur on H O
17 pron se/s' himself, herself, itself, oneself (reflex) | ourselves (informal, impersonal) (reflex) | themselves (reflex) | 
each other (informal, impersonal) (recip) | each other (pl) (recip)
H R
18 adv ne… pas (de) not (any) H R
19 adv plus (…que/qu')* adv + -er (...than), more (...than) H R
adj plus (…que/qu’)**; plus de (+ num) adj + -er (…than), more (…than); more (than + num) H R
20 v pouvoir (to) be able to, can | being able to H R
v peux (I) am able to, can | (you (sing informal)) are able to, can H R
v peut (she, he, it, one) is able to, can | (we (informal, impersonal)) are able to, can H R
v pouvons (we) are able to, can H R
v pouvez (you (pl, sing formal)) are able to, can H R
v peuvent (they) are able to, can H R
v (aux) pu was/were able to, could | (have, has) been able to H R
21 prep par by, per H R
22 pron je I (subj) H R
23 prep avec with H O
24 det tout*(e)(s) all, the whole (m) (f) (pl) H R
det tous* all, the whole (mpl, mixed gender pl) H R
pron tout** everything, all H O
pron tous** everyone, all of them H O
25 v faire; faire de + noun (to) do, make, go on/for + noun | doing, making, going on/for + noun; (to) do + -ing, go + -ing, play + 
noun | doing + -ing, going + -ing, playing + noun
H R
v fais | fais !; fais de + noun | fais de + noun ! (I) do, make, go on/for + noun | (I) am doing, am making, am going on/for + noun | (I) have been 
doing, have been making, have been going on/for + noun | (you (sing informal)) do, make, go on/for + 
noun | (you (sing informal)) are doing, are making, are going on/for + noun | (you (sing informal)) have 
been doing, have been making, have been going on/for + noun | do!, make!, go on/for + noun! (sing 
informal); (I) do + -ing, go + -ing, play + noun | (I) am doing + -ing, am going + -ing, am playing + noun | 
(I) have been doing + -ing, have been going + -ing, have been playing + noun | (you (sing informal)) do 
+ -ing, go + -ing, play + noun | (you (sing informal)) are doing + -ing, are going + -ing, are playing + noun 
| (you (sing informal)) have been doing + -ing, have been going + -ing, have been playing + noun | do 
+ -ing!, go + -ing!, play + noun! (sing informal)
H R
v fait* | (aux) fait; fait de + noun | (aux) fait 
de + noun
(she, he, it, one) does, makes, goes on/for + noun | (she, he, it, one) is doing, is making, is going on/for + 
noun | (she, he, it, one) has been doing, has been making, has been going on/for + noun | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) do, make, go on/for + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) are doing, are making, 
are going on/for + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been doing, have been making, have been 
going on/for + noun | did, made, went on/for + noun | (have, has) done, (have, has) made, (have, has) 
gone on/for + noun; (she, he, it, one) does + -ing, goes + -ing, plays + noun | (she, he, it, one) is doing + -
ing, is going + -ing, is playing + noun | (she, he, it, one) has been doing + -ing, has been going + -ing, has 
been playing + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) do + -ing, go + -ing, play + noun | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) are doing + -ing, are going + -ing, are playing + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) have 
been doing + -ing, have been going + -ing, have been playing + noun| did + -ing, went + -ing, played + 
noun | (have, has) done + -ing, (have, has) gone + -ing, (have, has) played + -ing
H R
v faisons | faisons !; faisons de + noun | 
faisons de + noun !
(we) do, make, go on/for + noun | (we) are doing, are making, are going on/for + noun | (we) have 
been doing, have been making, have been going on/for + noun | let's do!, let's make!, let's go on/for + 
noun!; (we) do + -ing, go + -ing, play + noun | (we) are doing + -ing, are going + -ing, are playing + noun 
| (we) have been doing + -ing, have been going + -ing, have been playing | let's do + -ing!, let's go + -
ing!, let’s play + noun!
H R
v faites | faites !; faites de | faites de ! you (pl, sing formal) do, make, go on/for + noun | (you (pl, sing formal)) are doing, are making, are 
going on/for + noun | (you (pl, sing formal)) have been doing, have been making, have been going 
on/for + noun | do!, make!, go on/for + noun! (pl, sing formal); you (pl, sing formal) do + -ing, go + -ing, 
play + noun | (you (pl, sing formal)) are doing + -ing, are going + -ing, are playing + noun | (you (pl, sing 
formal)) have been doing + -ing, have been going + -ing, have been playing + noun | do + -ing!, go + -
ing!, play + noun! (pl, sing formal)
H R
v font; font de (they) do, make, go on/for + noun | (they) are doing, are making, are going on/for + noun | (they) 
have been doing, have been making, have been going on/for + noun; (they) do + -ing, go + -ing, play 
+ noun | (they) are doing + -ing, are going + -ing, are playing + noun | (they) have been doing + -ing, 
have been going + -ing, have been playing + noun
H R
v ferais; ferais de (I) would do, would make, would go on/for + noun | (you (sing informal)) would do, would make, would 
go on/for + noun; (I) would do + -ing, would go + -ing, would play + noun | (you (sing informal)) would 
do + -ing, would go + -ing, would play + noun
H R
v ferait; ferait de (she, he, it, one) would do, would make, would go on/for + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) would do, 
would make, would go on/for + noun; (she, he, it, one) would do + -ing, would go + -ing, would play + 
noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) would do + -ing, would go + -ing, would play + noun
H R
v ferai; ferai de (I) will do, will make, will go on/for + noun | (I) am going to do, am going to make, am going to go 
on/for + noun; (I) will do + -ing, will go + -ing, will play + noun | (I) am going to do + -ing, am going to go 
+ -ing, am going to play + noun
H R
v feras; feras de (you (sing informal)) will do, will make, will go on/for + noun | (you (sing informal)) are going to do, are 
going to make, are going to go on/for + noun; (you (sing informal)) will do + -ing, will go + -ing, will play + 
noun | (you (sing informal)) are going to do + -ing, are going to go + -ing, are going to play + noun
H R

=== PDF page 80 ===
v fera; fera de (she, he, it, one) will do, will make, will go on/for + noun | (she, he, it, one) is going to do, is going to 
make, is going to go on/for + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) will do, will make, will go on/for + noun 
| (we (informal, impersonal)) are going to do, are going to make, are going to go on/for + noun; (she, 
he, it, one) will do + -ing, will go + -ing, will play + noun| (she, he, it, one) is going to do + -ing, is going to 
go + -ing, is going to play + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) will do + -ing, will go + -ing, will make + 
noun| (we (informal, impersonal)) are going to do + -ing, are going to go + -ing, are going to play + 
noun
H R
v faisant; faisant de doing, making, going on/for + noun; doing + -ing, going + -ing, playing + noun H R
v faisais; faisais de (I) used to do, used to make, used to go on/for + noun | (I) was doing, was making, was going on/for + 
noun | (you (sing informal)) used to do, used to make, used to go on/for + noun | (you (sing informal)) 
were doing, were making, were going on/for + noun; (I) used to do + -ing, used to go + -ing, used to play 
+ noun | (I) was doing + ing, was going + -ing, was playing + noun| (you (sing informal)) used to do + -
ing, used to go + -ing, used to play + noun | (you (sing informal)) were doing + -ing, were going + -ing, 
were playing + noun
H R
v faisait; faisait de (she, he, it, one) used to do, used to make, used to go on/for + noun | (she, he, it, one) was doing, was 
making, was going on/for + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) used to do, used to make, used to go 
on/for + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) were doing, were making, were going on/for + noun; (she, 
he, it, one) used to do + -ing, used to go + -ing, used to play + noun| (she, he, it, one) was doing + -ing, 
was going + -ing, was playing + noun | (we (informal, impersonal)) used to do + -ing, used to go + -ing, 
used to play + noun| (we (informal, impersonal)) were doing + -ing, were going + -ing, were playing + 
noun
H R
26 det son* his, her, its (m, f before a vowel or h) H R
det sa his, her, its (f) H R
det ses his, her, its, everyone's, one's (pl) H R
n (m) son** sound H O
27 v mettre; se mettre à (+ noun) (+ infinitive) (to) put (on) | putting (on); (to) start, begin (+ noun) (+ verb) | starting, beginning (+ noun) (+ verb) H O
v (aux) mis; se (aux) mis à (+ noun) (+ 
infinitive)
put (on) | (have, has) put (on); started, began (+ noun) (+ verb) | (have, has) started, begun (+ noun) (+ 
verb)
H O
28 det autre(s) other (m, f) (pl) H R
29 pron on everyone, you, one, (we (informal, impersonal)) H R
30 conj mais but H O
31 pron nous | (à) nous we (subj) | us (obj) | (to) us (indirect obj) | ourselves (reflex) | each other (recip) | (to) us (emph) H R
32 conj comme like, as H O
33 conj ou or H O
34 conj si if, whether H O
35 det leur* their (m, f) H R
det leurs their (pl) H R
pron leur** to them (m, f) (indirect obj) H R
36 pron y there H R
37 v dire; dire (à … de + infinitive) (to) say, tell | saying, telling; (to) tell (someone + verb) | telling (someone + verb) H O
v dit |(aux) dit (she, he, it, one) says, tells | (she, he, it, one) is saying, is telling | said, told | (have, has) said, (have, has) 
told
H O
38 pron elle | (à) elle she, it (f) (subj) | (to) her, it (f) (emph) H R
pron elles they (f) (subj) | (to) them (f) (emph) H R
39 v devoir (to) have to, must | having to H R
v dois (I) have to, must | (I) have been having to | (you (sing informal)) have to, must | (you (sing informal)) 
have been having to
H R
v doit (she, he, it, one) has to, must | (she, he, it, one) has been having to | (we (informal, impersonal)) have 
to, must | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been having to, must
H R
v devons (we) have to, must | (we) have been having to, must H R
v devez (you (pl, sing formal)) have to, must | (you (pl, sing formal)) have been having to, must H R
v doivent (they) have to, must | (they) have been having to, must H R
v (aux) dû had to | (have, has) had to H R
n (mpl) devoirs homework H O
40 prep avant; avant de + infinitive before; before + verb H R
41 num deux two H R
adj deux two H R
42 det même*(s) same (m, f) (pl) H R
adv même** even H O
43 v prendre (to) take | taking H R
44 adv aussi also, too, as well H O
46 v donner (to) give | giving H O
47 adv bien well H R
48 pron où | où ? where | where? H R
49 n (f) fois time H R
50 pron vous | (à) vous you (pl, formal) (subj) | (you (pl, sing formal)) (obj) | (to) you (pl, sing formal) (indirect obj) | yourselves 
(reflex) | yourself (formal) (reflex) | each other (recip) | (to) you (pl, sing formal) (emph)
H R
51 adv encore yet, again H R
52 adj nouveau new (m) H O
adj nouvelle new (f) H O
adj nouveaux new (mpl, mixed gender pl) H O
53 v aller (to) go | going H R
v vais (I) go | (I) am going | (I) have been going H R
v vas (you (sing informal)) go | (you (sing informal)) are going | (you (sing informal)) have been going H R
v va | va ! (she, he, it, one) goes | (she, he, it, one) is going | (she, he, it, one) has been going | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) go | (we (informal, impersonal)) are going | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been going | 
go! (sing informal)
H R
v vont (they) go | (they) are going | (they) have been going H R
v irais (I) would go | (you (sing informal)) would go H R
v irait (she, he, it, one) would go | (we (informal, impersonal)) would go H R
v irai (I) will go | (I) am going to go H R
v iras (you (sing informal)) will go | (you (sing informal)) are going to go H R

=== PDF page 81 ===
v ira (she, he, it, one) will go | (she, he, it, one) is going to go | (we (informal, impersonal)) will go | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) are going to go
H R
54 pron cela that, it [formal] H O
pron ça that, it [informal] H O
55 prep entre between H O
56 adj premier first (m) H R
n (f) première year 12 H O
57 v vouloir (to) want (to) | wanting (to) H R
v veux (I) want (to) | (I) have been wanting (to) | (you (sing informal)) want (to) | (you (sing informal)) have 
been wanting (to)
H R
v veut (she, he, it, one) wants (to) | (she, he, it, one) has been wanting (to) | (we (informal, impersonal)) want 
(to) | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been wanting (to)
H R
v voulons (we) want (to) | (we) have been wanting (to) H R
v voulez (you (pl, sing formal)) want (to) | (you (pl, sing formal)) have been wanting (to) H R
v veulent (they) want (to) | (they) have been wanting (to) H R
v voudrais (I) would like | (you (sing informal)) would like H R
v voudrait (she, he, it, one) would like | (we (informal, impersonal)) would like H R
v (aux) voulu wanted | (have, has) wanted H R
58 adv déjà already, yet H O
59 adj grand tall, big, large (m) H R
60 det mon my (m, f before a vowel or h) H R
det ma my (f) H R
det mes my (pl) H R
61 pron me/m' me (obj) | to me (indirect obj) | myself (reflex) H R
62 adv moins (…que/qu’)* less (…than) H R
adj moins (…que/qu’)**; moins de (+ num) less (…than); less, fewer (than + num) H R
63 det ne… aucun(e) no, not one, not any (m) (f) H R
64 pron lui | (à) lui (to) him, (to) her, (to) it (m, f) (indirect obj) | (to) him, (to) her, (to) it (m, f) (emph) H R
65 n (m) temps time, weather H R
66 adv très very H O
67 v savoir (to) know (how to), can | knowing (how to) H R
v sais (I) know (how to), can | (you (sing informal)) know (how to), can H R
v sait (she, he, it, one) knows (how to), can | (we (informal, impersonal)) know (how to), can H R
v savons (we) know (how to), can H R
v savez (you (pl, sing formal)) know (how to), can H R
v savent (they) know (how to), can H R
v (aux) su knew (how to), could | (have, has) known (how to), (have, has) been able to H R
69 v voir (to) see | seeing H R
v vois | vois ! (I) see | (I) am seeing | (I) have been seeing | (you (sing informal)) see | (you (sing informal)) are seeing 
| (you (sing informal)) have been seeing | see! (sing informal)
H R
v voit (she, he, it, one) sees | (she, he, it, one) is seeing | (she, he, it, one) has been seeing | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) see | (we (informal, impersonal)) are seeing | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been 
seeing
H R
v (aux) vu saw | (have, has) seen H R
70 det quelque(s) some (m, f) (pl) H R
71 prep sans without H R
72 n (f) raison reason H O
73 det notre our (m, f) H R
det nos our (pl) H R
75 adv non no, not H R
76 n (m) an year H R
77 n (m) monde world H O
78 n (m) jour day H R
79 n (m) monsieur Sir, Mr, (sing), gentleman H O
80 v demander; demander à ... (de + infinitive); 
se demander
(to) ask for | asking for; (to) ask someone (+ verb) | asking someone (+ verb); (to) wonder | wondering H O
81 adv alors so, well, then H O
82 prep après after H O
83 v trouver; se trouver (to) find | finding; (to) be situated | being situated H O
84 pron ne… personne* not anyone, no one H R
pron personne ne nobody (subj) H R
n (f) personne** person H O
85 v rendre; se rendre (to) return something, give something back, to make (+ adj) | returning something, giving something 
back, making (+adj); (to) get to, go to | getting to, going to
H O
87 adj dernier last (m) H O
88 v venir (to) come | coming H R
89 prep pendant during H O
90 v passer; se passer (to) spend time, pass | spending time, passing time; (to) happen | happening H O
91 adv (un) peu a bit, (a) little H O
94 adj bon good (m) H R
adj bonne good (f) H R
95 v comprendre (to) understand | understanding H O
96 prep depuis for, since H R
99 n (f); n 
(f)(pl)
heure; heure(s) hour, time; o'clock H R
100 v rester (to) stay, remain | staying, remaining H O
101 adj seul alone (m) H R
102 n (f) année year H O
103 adv toujours always H O
104 v tenir (to) hold | holding H O
105 v porter (to) wear, carry | wearing, carrying H R
106 v parler (to) speak, talk | speaking, talking H R
107 adj fort strong (m), loud H R
108 v montrer (to) show | showing H O
109 adv là there, here H O
110 adj certain certain, sure (m) H O

=== PDF page 82 ===
n (mpl) certains some people H O
111 n (f) fin end H O
112 pron tu you (sing informal) (subj) H R
113 v continuer (à/de + infinitive) (to) continue (+ verb), carry on (+ verb) | continuing (+ verb), carrying on (+ verb) H R
114 n (m) pays country H O
115 num trois three H O
116 v penser (à + noun) (à + infinitive) (de + 
noun) (de + infinitive)
(to) think (of + noun) (of + verb) (about + noun) (about + verb) | thinking (of + noun) (of + verb) (about + 
noun) (about + verb)
H O
117 n (m) lieu place H O
118 n (f) partie part, game, match H O
119 conj/adv quand | quand ? when | when? H R
120 v suivre (to) follow | following H R
v suis** | suis ! (I) follow | (I) am following | (I) have been following | (you (sing informal)) follow | (you (sing informal)) 
are following | (you (sing informal)) have been following | follow! (sing informal)
H R
v suit (she, he, it, one) follows | (she, he, it, one) is following | (she, he, it, one) has been following | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) follow | (we (informal, impersonal)) are following | (we (informal, impersonal)) 
have been following
H R
v (aux) suivi followed | (have, has) followed H R
121 prep contre against H O
122 prep sous under H R
123 n (m) côté side H O
124 adv ensemble together H O
125 n (f) chose thing H O
126 n (m, f) enfant child (m, f) H R
127 n (f) cause cause H O
128 n (f) politique politics H O
129 n (f) place room, space, square, place H O
130 adv seulement only H O
131 pron (à) moi (to) me (emph) H R
132 n (f) vie life H O
133 v connaître (to) know, be familiar with | knowing, being familiar with H R
134 prep jusque to, up to, until H O
135 v croire (to) believe | believing H R
v crois | crois ! (I) believe | (I) am believing | (I) have been believing) | (you (sing informal)) believe | (you (sing 
informal)) are believing | (you (sing informal)) have been believing | believe! (sing informal)
H R
v croit (she, he, it, one) believes | (she, he, it, one) is believing | (she, he, it, one) has been believing | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) believe | (we (informal, impersonal)) are believing | (we (informal, impersonal)) 
have been believing
H R
v (aux) cru believed | (have, has) believed H R
136 n (m) homme man H O
137 n (m) cas case, scenario H O
138 adj petit short, small, little (m) H O
139 v commencer (à + infinitive) (to) start  (+ verb), begin (+ verb) | starting (+ verb), beginning (+ verb) H O
140 v compter (to) count | counting H O
141 n (m) fait** fact H O
143 adj droit right (m) H O
144 n (f) question question H R
145 conj donc so, therefore H O
146 det quel(le)(s) ? which? (m) (f) (pl) H R
147 adj général general (m) H O
148 n (m) moment moment H O
149 v entendre; s'entendre (avec …) (to) hear | hearing; (to) get on, get along (with someone) | getting on, getting along (with someone) H R
150 adv beaucoup a lot H O
151 det chaque each, every H R
152 adj jeune young (m, f) H R
153 n (m) travail work (sing), job, task H O
154 n (f) femme woman, wife H O
155 v attendre (to) wait (for), expect | waiting (for), expecting H O
157 v appeler; s'appeler (to) call | calling; (to) be named | being named H O
158 v permettre (à … de + infinitive) (to) allow (someone + verb), allowing (someone + verb) H O
v (aux) permis (à … de + infinitive) allowed, permitted (someone + verb) | (have, has) allowed, permitted (someone + verb) H O
159 v occuper; s'occuper de + noun (to) fill, keep busy | filling, keeping busy; take care of + noun | taking care of + noun H O
160 n (m) gouvernement government H O
161 pron (à) eux (to) them (m, mixed gender) (emph) H R
162 v devenir (to) become | becoming H O
163 v partir (to) leave | leaving H R
165 v décider (de + infinitive); se décider (à + 
infinitive)
(to) decide (+ verb) | deciding (+ verb); (to) make the decision (+ verb) | making the decision (+ verb) H O
167 adv ici here H R
168 pron ne… rien not anything, nothing H R
pron rien ne nothing (subj) H R
169 n (m) cours* course, lessons H O
170 n (fpl) affaires business, matters H O
171 n (m) nom full name, surname, name H R
172 n (f) famille family H O
173 n (m) effet effect H O
174 v arriver; arriver à + infinitive (to) arrive | arriving; (to) manage + verb, succeed in + verb | managing + verb, succeeding in + verb H R
175 adj possible possible (m, f) H R
176 conj car because, for H O
177 v servir; se servir de (to) serve | serving; (to) use, make use of | using, making use of H R
178 n (m) mois month H O
179 adv ne… jamais never, not ever H R
180 v sembler (to) seem | seeming H O
182 prep vers towards H O

=== PDF page 83 ===
183 n (m) besoin need H O
184 v revenir (to) come back, return | coming back, returning H O
185 prep dès from, as soon as H O
186 n (m) moyen means, way H O
187 n (m) groupe group H O
188 n (m) problème problem H O
189 n (m) rapport relationship, report H O
190 adv peut-être maybe, perhaps H O
191 n (f) vue view H O
192 adv maintenant now H O
193 pron pourquoi ? why? H R
194 adj meilleur(e)(s) better, best (m) (f) (pl) H R
adj le meilleur/la meilleure/les meilleur(e)s the best (m/f/(f)pl) H R
195 adv trop too much, too many, too H O
196 v laisser (to) leave, (to) let |leaving, letting H O
197 n (m) ordre order H O
198 prep devant in front of H O
199 v recevoir (to) receive | receiving H R
v reçois | reçois ! (I) receive | (I) am receiving | (I) have been receiving | (you (sing informal)) receive | (you (sing 
informal)) are receiving | (you (sing informal)) have been receiving | receive! (sing informal)
H R
v reçoit (she, he, it, one) receives | (she, he, it, one) is receiving | (she, he, it, one) has been receiving | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) receive | (we (informal, impersonal)) are receiving | (we (informal, impersonal)) 
have been receiving
H R
v (aux) reçu received | (have, has) received H R
200 v répondre (à + noun) (to) answer  (+ noun), reply to (+ noun) | answering  (+ noun), replying to (+ noun) H O
201 v vivre (to) live | living H O
v vis | vis ! (I) live | (I) am living | (I) have been living | (you (sing informal)) live | (you (sing informal)) are living | 
(you (sing informal)) have been living | live! (sing informal)
H O
v vit (she, he, it, one) lives | (she, he, it, one) is living | (she, he, it, one) has been living | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) live | (we (informal, impersonal)) are living | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been living
H O
v (aux) vécu lived | (have, has) lived H O
202 adj long long (m) H O
adj longue long (f) H O
203 n (m) service service H O
204 n (m, f) ministre minister H O
206 prep chez (to) (the place of), at (the place of), at, with H O
207 pron te/t' you (sing informal) (obj) | to you (sing informal) (indirect obj), yourself (sing informal) (reflex) H R
208 v rappeler; rappeler (à … de + infinitive); se 
rappeler
to call back | calling back; (to) remind (someone + verb), reminding (someone + verb); (to) remember; 
remembering
H O
209 v présenter; présenter ... à (to) present, show | presenting, showing; (to) introduce someone to | introducing someone to H O
210 v accepter (to) accept, admit | accepting, admitting H O
212 adj simple simple (m, f) H O
213 det plusieurs several, many H R
214 det votre your (formal) (m, f) H R
det vos your (formal) (pl) H R
215 adj important important (m) H O
216 n (m) présent present H O
217 adv mieux better H R
adv le mieux (the) best H R
218 v poser (to) put, ask | putting, asking H O
219 v jouer (à/de + noun) (to) play (+ noun) | playing (+ noun) H R
220 n (m) mot word H O
221 v reconnaître (to) recognise | recognising H O
223 n (f) situation situation H O
224 v offrir à … (to) give someone, offer someone | giving someone, offering someone H O
225 adv près nearby, close by, near H O
226 v choisir (to) choose | choosing H R
227 adj national national (m) H O
228 n (m) projet plan H O
230 adv puis then, so H O
231 v toucher (to) touch | touching H O
232 n (m) train train H R
233 adv aujourd’hui today H O
234 pron comment ? how? H R
235 adv surtout especially, above all H O
236 n (mpl) gens people H O
237 adj propre clean, proper, own (m, f) H O
239 n (f) idée idea H O
240 prep selon according to H O
241 n (f) région region, area H O
242 v aimer (to) like, love | liking, loving H O
243 n (m) sens sense, meaning H O
245 n (f) semaine week H O
246 adv également also, too, as well, equally H R
248 n (f) façon way, manner H O
249 n (m) nombre number H O
250 v perdre; se perdre (to) lose | losing; (to) get lost | getting lost H R
251 adj français French (m) H R
252 v expliquer (to) explain | explaining H O
253 adj quatre four H R
num quatre four H O
254 n (m) compte account, count H O
257 v ouvrir (to) open | opening H R
258 v gagner (to) win, earn, gain | winning, earning, gaining H R
259 n (m) exemple example H O
260 n (f) ville town H O

=== PDF page 84 ===
261 adj économique economic (m, f) H O
263 n (f) histoire history, story H O
264 adj haut high (m) H O
265 adv ensuite next H O
266 n (f) guerre war H O
267 n (f) loi law H O
268 n (m) président president (m) H R
269 v exister (to) exist | existing H O
270 adj sûr safe, sure (m) H O
271 v refuser (de + infinitive) (to) refuse (+ verb) | refusing (+ verb) H O
272 adv plutôt rather H O
273 n (m) bureau desk, office H R
274 adj mauvais bad, wrong (m) H O
276 adj mort* dead (m) H O
n (f) mort** death H O
277 adv mal* badly H R
adj mal** bad (m, f) H R
n (m) mal*** ache H O
278 v lire (to) read | reading H O
v (aux) lu read | (have, has) read H O
279 v réussir (à + infinitive) (à + noun) (to) succeed (in + verb), pass (an exam) | succeeding (in + verb), passing (an exam) H O
280 n (m) marché market H O
281 n (f) condition condition H O
282 adj international international (m) H O
283 v changer; se changer (to) change | changing; (to) get changed | getting changed H O
284 adv oui yes H O
285 adj public* public (m) H O
n (m) public** public, audience H O
286 n (m) humain human H O
287 adv souvent often H R
288 num cinq five H O
289 n (m) système system H O
290 v travailler (to) work | working H O
291 n (m) jeu game H R
292 adj vrai true (m) H R
293 v représenter (to) represent | representing H O
294 n (f) madame Mrs, Ms, (sing), madam, lady H O
295 n (f) société society H O
296 adj difficile difficult (m, f) H O
297 pron quoi ? what? H R
298 n (f) entreprise company H O
301 adj social social (m) H O
303 v essayer (de + infinitive) (to) try (+ verb), attempt (+verb) | trying (+ verb), attempting (+ verb) H O
304 adj juste right, true, correct, fair (m, f) H O
305 adj étranger* foreign (m) H O
n (m) étranger** foreigner, stranger, abroad H O
306 v empêcher (… de + infinitive) (to) prevent (someone from + verb) | preventing (someone from + verb) H O
307 n (m) million million H O
308 n (f) manière manner, way H O
309 v sortir (to) go out, exit, take out, release | going out, exiting, taking out, releasing H O
310 n (m) prix price, prize H R
312 adv longtemps a long time, a long while H O
314 adj courant current, common (m) H R
315 n (m) intérêt interest H O
316 v mener (to) lead | leading H O
317 n (f) information information H O
318 n (m) détail detail H O
319 v appartenir (to) belong | belonging H O
320 n (f) liberté liberty, freedom H O
321 adv assez quite H O
322 v risquer (de + infinitive) (to) risk (+ verb) | risking (+ verb) H O
323 pron chacun each person H O
324 v concerner (to) affect, concern, relate to | affecting, concerning, relating to H O
325 n (f) maison house, home H R
326 adv d’abord first of all, firstly, to start with H O
327 v apprendre; apprendre à … (to) learn | learning; (to) teach someone | teaching someone H O
328 n (m) niveau level H O
329 v rencontrer (to) meet, run into | meeting, running into H O
330 det ton your (sing informal) (m, f before a vowel or h) H R
det ta your (sing informal) (f) H R
det tes your (sing informal) (pl) H R
332 v créer (to) create | creating H O
333 n (m) état state H O
334 v obtenir (to) get, obtain │ getting, obtaining H O
335 adj clair clear (m) H O
336 v chercher (to) look for | looking for H R
337 v entrer (to) enter, go in, come in │ entering, going in, coming in H O
338 v proposer; proposer de  + infinitive (to) propose, offer | proposing, offering; (to) suggest + verb | suggesting + verb H O
339 v apporter (to) bring (something) | bringing (something) H O
340 n (m) programme schedule H O
341 adv loin far H O
342 n (f) ligne line H R
343 n (f) tête head H R
344 adj libre free (m) H O
345 v utiliser (to) use | using H O
348 adv tard late (something) H O
349 adv enfin finally H O

=== PDF page 85 ===
350 adj différent different (m) H O
351 n (f) sorte sort, kind H O
352 conj cependant however H O
353 n (m) sujet subject, topic H O
355 n (f) action action H O
356 n (f) relation relationship H O
357 n (f) recherche research, search H O
358 n (m) (f) livre book, pound H O
359 v ajouter (to) add | adding H O
360 adv ailleurs elsewhere, somewhere else H O
361 adv vraiment truly, really, very H O
362 n (m) doute doubt H O
363 n (m) reste rest H O
364 n (m) début beginning H O
366 adj nombreux many, numerous, plentiful (m) H O
367 v produire (to) produce, make | producing, making H O
368 v préparer; se préparer (to) prepare | preparing; (to) get ready | getting ready H O
369 n (f) forme form, shape H O
370 n (f) décision decision H O
371 n (m) rôle role H O
372 num dix ten H O
373 n (m) produit product H O
374 adj américain American (m) H O
375 n (f) minute minute H O
380 adj prochain next (m) H O
382 v écrire (to) write | writing H R
383 n (f) position position H O
384 n (m) développement development H O
385 v défendre (to) defend, stand up for, forbid | defending, standing up for, forbidding H O
386 n (m) chef boss, cook (m) H O
n (f) cheffe boss, cook (f) H O
387 n (f) économie economy H O
388 n (m) effort effort H O
389 prep parmi among H O
390 n (m) membre member H O
392 adj ancien former, ancient (m) H O
393 adj beau/bel beautiful (m) H O
adj belle beautiful (f) H O
adj beaux beautiful (mpl, mixed gender pl) H O
394 adj plein full (m) H O
396 v éviter (de + infinitive) (to) avoid (+ verb) | avoiding (+ verb) H O
397 n (m) soir evening H O
399 n (m) titre title H O
401 n (m) objet object, subject line H O
402 adj unique unique (m, f) H O
403 v souhaiter (to) wish | wishing H O
406 prep malgré despite, in spite of H O
409 v réaliser (to) realise, achieve | realising, achieving H O
410 adv parfois sometimes H O
412 adj sérieux conscientious, responsible (m) H R
413 v aider (… à + infinitive) (to) help (someone + verb) | helping (someone + verb) H O
414 n (f) voix voice H O
415 v terminer (de + infinitive) (to) finish (+ verb), end | finishing (+ verb), ending H O
417 v espérer (to) hope (for) | hoping (for) H O
418 n (f) main hand H O
420 v arrêter (de + infinitive) (to) stop (+ verb) | stopping (+ verb) H O
421 n (m) retour return H O
422 adj prêt ready (m) H O
423 n (f) occasion chance, opportunity H O
425 v regarder (to) watch, look at | watching, looking at H O
426 n (f) plupart (de) most, the majority (of) H O
428 n (m) résultat result, follow-up H O
429 v écouter (to) listen to | listening to H O
430 n (f) terre earth, world, soil, land H O
435 n (f) confiance confidence, trust H O
436 n (m) choix choice H O
438 n (f) chance luck H R
439 adv notamment notably H O
440 n (m) type type, guy H O
441 n (m) but goal, aim, objective, purpose H O
442 n (m) matin morning H O
443 adj grave serious, grave (m, f) H O
445 n (m) Européen European H R
446 n (f) étude study H O
448 v remplacer (par + noun) (to) replace (with + noun) | replacing (with + noun) H O
450 num six six H O
451 adj nécessaire necessary, required (m, f) H O
452 n (f) activité activity H O
455 adj entier whole, full (m) H O
456 n (f) réponse reply, response, answer H O
457 n (f) aide help H O
458 adj principal main (m) H O
460 adv pourtant yet, nonetheless, nevertheless H O
465 n (f) époque era, period, time H O
466 v exprimer (to) express | expressing H O
467 n (m) ami friend (m) H O
470 n (f) moitié half H O

=== PDF page 86 ===
471 n (m) avenir future H O
472 n (m) argent money H R
474 n (m) œil eye H O
n (mpl) yeux eyes H O
475 n (f) eau water H O
476 prep sauf except H O
477 n (f) école school H O
478 n (f) sécurité security, safety H R
479 n (m) milieu middle H O
480 n (f) lettre letter H O
481 adv presque almost, nearly H O
482 n (f) attention* attention H O
intj attention !** watch out! H R
484 n (m) futur future H O
487 v conduire (to) drive | driving H O
488 n (f) règle rule, ruler H O
489 n (f) poste post office H O
490 n (f) demande request, demand H O
491 n (m) centre centre H O
493 v disparaître (to) disappear | disappearing H O
496 n (m) accord agreement H O
499 v obliger (to) require, force, oblige | requiring, forcing, obliging H O
501 n (m) passé past H O
502 n (m) âge age H O
503 v déclarer (to) announce, report | announcing, reporting H O
504 v oublier (de + infinitive) (to) forget (+ verb) | forgetting (+ verb) H O
506 n (f) troisième year 10 H O
507 v quitter; se quitter (to) leave somewhere, take off | leaving somewhere, taking off; (to) leave each other | leaving each 
other
H R
509 n (f) population population H O
510 pron (à) toi (to) you (sing informal) (emph) H R
511 adj responsable responsible (m, f) H O
512 n (f) route road H O
513 adv tôt early H O
514 v lancer (to) throw, launch | throwing, launching H O
515 n (f) limite limit H O
517 n (m) emploi job H O
518 n (m) objectif objective, aim, goal H O
520 n (m) journal newspaper H O
n (mpl) journaux newspapers H O
521 v annoncer (to) announce, make public | announcing, making public H O
522 pron lui-même himself H O
523 n (m) (f) tour turn, tour, tower H O
524 prep voilà right, there, here H O
525 n (f) volonté will H O
526 v envoyer (to) send | sending H R
527 v partager (to) share | sharing H O
528 conj puisque as, because H O
530 n (m) changement change H O
531 v garder (to) keep, take care of, look after | keeping, taking care of, looking after H O
532 n (f) réalité reality H O
533 v interdire (à ...) (to) forbid, ban (from someone) | forbidding, banning (from someone) H O
534 v finir (de + infinitive) (to) end, finish | ending, finishing; (to) finish (+ verb) | finishing (+ verb) H R
535 v placer; se placer (to) put, place | putting, placing; (to) position yourself | positioning yourself H O
536 v sentir; se sentir (to) smell | smelling; (to) feel | feeling H O
537 v payer (to) pay (for) | paying (for) H O
538 n (m) esprit mind, spirit H O
540 v diriger; se diriger (to) direct, guide | directing, guiding; (to) make one's way | making one's way H O
541 v noter (to) mark, write down, notice | marking, writing down, noticing H O
542 n (f) nature nature H O
543 n (m) régime diet H O
545 adj court* short (m) H O
546 n (m) parent parent H O
547 v tomber (to) fall | falling H O
548 n (m) départ departure H O
549 adj mondial worldwide, global (m) H O
552 n (fpl) paroles lyrics H O
554 adj publique public (f) H O
555 adj faux false (m) H O
adj fausse false (f) H O
556 n (m) genre type, kind, sort H O
558 n (f) communauté community H O
559 v intéresser + s/o inversion; s'intéresser (à + 
noun)
(to) find interesting | finding interesting; (to) be interested (in + noun) | being interested (in + noun) H O
560 adv c’est-à-dire in other words, that is to say H O
561 n (m) corps body H O
562 n (f) matière subject H O
564 n (f) difficulté difficulty H O
567 n (m) appel call H O
568 n (m) cœur heart H R
569 n (m) père father H O
570 n (f) organisation organisation H O
572 adj noir black (m) H O
573 n (m) événement event H O
577 n (m) conseil advice, counsel, council H O
578 v soutenir (to) support | supporting H O
579 n (f) paix peace H O

=== PDF page 87 ===
580 n (f) nuit night H O
581 adv partout everywhere H O
582 n (f) direction direction, management H O
583 v manquer; manquer à + s/o inversion (to) fail to catch, be missing, miss | failing to catch, being missing, missing; (to) miss | missing H O
584 adj actuel current (m) H R
586 v signifier (to) mean | meaning H O
587 n (f) journée day H O
590 v indiquer (to) indicate, show | indicating, showing H O
591 v tuer (to) kill | killing H R
592 adj technique technical  (m, f) H O
593 adv rapidement quickly, rapidly H O
594 adv autour around H O
595 v réduire (to) reduce | reducing H O
597 v préférer (to) prefer | preferring H O
adj préféré favourite (m) H O
598 n (f) rue street H R
599 adj riche rich (m, f) H O
602 n (f) violence violence H O
603 n (m) siècle century H O
604 n (m) article article, item H O
605 v durer (to) last | lasting H O
606 n (f) qualité quality H O
607 adj gauche left (m, f) H R
608 n (f) solution solution H O
609 n (f) voie street, route, way H O
610 adj capable able, capable (m, f) H O
611 adj canadien Canadian (m) H O
612 n (f) erreur mistake, error H O
613 v livrer (to) deliver | delivering H O
615 adv simplement simply H O
616 v se souvenir (de + noun) (to) remember (+ noun) | remembering (+ noun) H O
617 n (f) conséquence consequence H O
619 n (f) contraire opposite, contrary H O
620 n (m) succès success H O
622 adj local local (m) H O
623 n (m) été summer H O
624 v inviter (to) invite | inviting H O
626 n (m) pied foot H O
628 n (m) débat debate H O
629 n (f) fille girl, daughter H R
630 v répéter (to) repeat | repeating H O
631 n (m) texte text H O
632 v profiter de + noun (to) make the most of + noun, enjoy + noun | making the most of + noun, enjoying + noun H O
633 n (f) chambre bedroom H O
636 v acheter (to) buy | buying H O
638 n (f) production production H O
640 n (m) directeur head teacher, manager (m) H R
641 n (f) santé health H O
642 v souffrir (to) suffer | suffering H O
643 adj précis precise, accurate (m) H O
645 n (f) mère mother H O
647 n (m) risque risk H O
648 n (m) arme weapon, arms H O
650 n (m) endroit place, spot H O
652 adj impossible impossible (m, f) H O
655 v amener (to) bring (someone) | bringing (someone) H O
659 n (f) image picture, image H O
660 n (f) date date H O
662 n (m) contrôle test, check, inspection H O
663 adj énorme enormous (m, f) H O
665 adj réel real (m, f) H O
666 n (f) campagne countryside H O
667 v (aux) né was born | (have, has) been born H O
669 v tourner (to) turn, go round | turning, going round H O
670 v participer à + noun (to) take part in + noun, participate in + noun | taking part in + noun, participating in + noun H O
671 adj vieux/vieil old (m) H O
adj vieille old (f) H O
672 adj rapide fast, quick (m, f) H O
673 v respecter (to) respect | respecting H O
675 adj essentiel essential (m) H O
678 adv environ about, thereabouts, or so H O
679 n (f) expérience experience H O
680 v admettre (to) admit, confess | admitting, confessing H O
681 v découvrir (to) discover | discovering H O
683 v assister; assister à + noun (to) assist | assisting; (to) attend + noun | attending + noun H O
691 adj frais fresh (m) H O
adj fraîche fresh (f) H O
692 n (f) industrie industry H O
694 n (f) responsabilité responsibility H O
695 v réserver (to) reserve, book, keep | reserving, booking, keeping H O
696 n (f) porte door H R
697 n (f) victime victim H O
699 adj pauvre poor (m, f) H O
700 n (m) taux rate H O
701 v organiser; s'organiser (to) organise | organising; (to) get organised | getting organised H O
704 num cent one hundred H O
706 v prononcer (to) pronounce | pronouncing H O

=== PDF page 88 ===
708 adj blanc white (m) H O
adj blanche white (f) H O
709 n (f) origine origin, source H O
710 v vendre (to) sell | selling H O
711 adv vite quickly, fast H R
712 n (f) langue language, tongue H O
713 adj dangereux dangerous (m) H R
715 n (f) importance importance H O
717 n (m) espoir hope H R
720 n (f) énergie energy H O
721 n (m) réseau network H O
722 v mourir (to) die | dying H O
v (aux) mort died | (have, has) died H O
723 adj faible weak (m, f) H O
724 v employer (to) use, employ | using, employing H O
725 n (f) possibilité possibility H O
726 adj spécial special (m) H O
727 v accompagner (to) accompany | accompanying H O
728 adv actuellement at present, at the moment H O
732 pron ceci this H O
735 n (m) fils son H O
736 intj d’accord okay, alright H O
737 v discuter (de + noun) (to) discuss, talk about (+ noun) | discussing, talking about (+ noun) H O
738 n (f) différence difference H O
739 v protéger (to) protect | protecting H O
740 v abandonner (to) give up, abandon | giving up, abandoning H O
741 n (m) avis opinion, mind H O
742 v battre; se battre (to) beat, hit | beating, hitting; (to) fight, fighting H O
743 adj pire*(s) worse, worst (m, f) (pl) H R
adv pire** worse, less well H O
adj le pire*/la pire/les pires the worst (m/f/pl) H R
adv le pire** the worst, the least well H O
749 n (m) chiffre figure, number H O
751 v remplir (to) fill (up), (in) | filling (up), (in) H O
752 adj divers varied, diverse (m) H O
754 v frapper (to) hit, knock | hitting, knocking H O
755 n (f) peur fear H R
756 n (m) parlement parliament H O
757 v fermer (to) close, shut | closing, shutting H O
759 n (f) lutte struggle, fight, conflict H O
760 adj naturel natural (m) H O
761 n (m) air air, appearance H O
762 n (m, f) auteur author H O
764 adj heureux happy (m) H O
765 n (f) crise crisis H O
766 n (m) numéro number H O
769 n (m) instant instant, moment H O
772 pron quelqu’un somebody, someone H O
774 n (f) banque bank H O
776 v reposer; se reposer (to) put down | putting down; (to) rest | resting H O
777 n (f) opinion opinion H O
778 n (f) classe class H O
779 adv particulièrement particularly H O
780 adj commun common (m, f) H O
782 n (f) intention intention H O
784 adj anglais English (m) H R
785 n (m) échange exchange H O
786 n (m) feu fire H O
787 num/adj neuf; neuf nine; (brand) new (m) H O
791 v dépendre de (to) depend on + noun, depending on + noun H O
792 n (m) message message H O
793 v construire (to) build, construct | building, constructing H O
794 n (f) scène stage, scene H O
796 adj secret secret (m) H O
adj secrète secret (f) H O
797 n (m) plaisir pleasure H O
800 pron combien ? how many?, how much? H R
801 adj nul rubbish (m) H O
adj nulle rubbish (f) H O
802 n (f) absence absence H O
803 adj cher expensive; dear (m) H O
805 prep derrière behind H O
806 n (f) connaissance knowledge, acquaintance H O
807 adv immédiatement immediately H O
808 n (f) entrée entrance, starter H O
811 v couper (to) cut | cutting H O
812 n (f) salle room H O
813 n (f) pièce piece, room, play H O
814 n (f) équipe team H O
815 v situer; se situer (to) place, put, situate | placing, putting, situating; (to) be situated, take place | being situated, taking 
place
H O
816 v souligner (to) underline, stress | underlining, stressing H O
818 n (m) respect respect H O
819 n (m) crime crime H O
822 adj facile easy (m, f) H O
823 v augmenter; s'augmenter (to) increase, raise | increasing, raising; (to) grow, expand | growing, expanding H O
826 n (m) octobre October H O

=== PDF page 89 ===
827 n (m, f) médecin doctor (m, f) H O
829 n (f) police police H O
830 n (m) coût cost H O
831 n (f) formation training H O
833 adj normal normal (m) H R
834 n (f) attitude attitude H O
835 n (f) faute mistake, error, fault H O
836 n (f) série series H O
837 v lever; se lever (to) lift, raise | lifting, raising; (to) get up, stand up, rise (sun) | getting up, standing up, rising (sun) H O
838 prep proche nearby, close H O
839 adj direct direct (m) H O
840 v imaginer (to) invent, imagine | inventing, imagining H O
842 adj pratique practical (m, f) H O
844 adj allemand German (m) H O
847 n (m) champ field, realm H O
848 n (m) film film H O
852 n (f) ressource resource H O
853 v monter; monter (à + noun) (to) go up | going up; (to) climb (up + noun) | climbing (up + noun) H O
854 v promettre (à …) (de + infinitive) (to) promise (someone) (+ verb) | promising (someone) (+ verb) H O
856 v concentrer (to) concentrate | concentrating H O
857 adv exactement exactly H O
859 n (m) chemin way, path H O
861 n (f) province province H O
862 n (f) élection election H O
864 n (m) conflit conflict H O
866 n (f) enquête survey, investigation H O
867 n (m) terrain ground, terrain H O
868 n (m) mars March H O
869 adv tellement so much H O
870 n (m) espace space H O
871 adv demain; à demain ! tomorrow; see you tomorrow! H R
872 adv hier yesterday H O
874 v remarquer (to) remark, notice | remarking, noticing H O
877 num huit eight H O
880 n (m) lien link, bond H O
881 n (f) voiture car H O
882 n (f) discussion discussion H O
886 n (m) sentiment feeling H O
887 n (f) tâche task, chore H O
888 adv directement directly H O
889 intj euh er, um, uh H O
890 v raconter (to) tell, narrate | telling, narrating H O
891 n (m) décembre December H O
892 v développer (to) develop | developing H O
896 n (m) fruit fruit H O
897 v/adj (aux) ouvert; ouvert opened; open, unlocked (m) H O
900 n (m) avantage advantage H O
902 adj historique historic (m, f) H O
904 n (m) voyage trip, journey H O
905 num sept seven H O
907 n (f) vérité truth H O
908 adj commercial commercial, shopping (m) H O
909 n (f) critique criticism, critic H O
913 n (f) culture culture H O
914 v cacher (to) hide | hiding H O
915 v prêter (to) lend | lending H O
916 v définir (to) define, defining H O
917 n (m) client customer, client H O
919 n (m) progrès progress H O
920 n (m, f) secrétaire secretary H O
921 n (f) mer sea H O
924 n (f) liste list H O
925 v rentrer (to) go in, come in, come back (in), go back (in) | going in, coming in, coming back (in), going back (in) H O
926 n (f) mémoire memory H O
928 v détruire (to) destroy | destroying H O
930 n (f) nécessité necessity, need H O
931 n (m) juin June H O
932 n (m) danger danger H O
934 n (m) commerce trade, commerce H O
935 n (m) transport transportation H O
936 n (f) attente wait H O
939 n (m) janvier January H O
943 n (m) mai May H O
944 n (m) septembre September H O
945 n (m) environnement environment H O
946 v séparer; se séparer (to) separate | separating; (to) break up | breaking up H O
949 adj positif positive (m) H R
950 n (m, f) scientifique scientist H O
951 n (m) papier paper H O
953 n (f) protection protection H O
954 adj indépendant independent (m) H O
955 n (f) carte menu, map, card H O
956 n (f) association association H O
959 v commander; commander à … de + 
infinitive
(to) order | ordering; (to) tell someone + verb | telling someone + verb H O
960 v étudier (to) study | studying H O

=== PDF page 90 ===
965 adj complet full, complete (m) H O
adj complète full, complete (f) H O
967 n (m) amour love H O
968 v manifester (to) protest, demonstrate | protesting, demonstrating H O
969 v menacer (de + infinitive) (to) threaten (+ verb) | threatening (+ verb) H O
970 v conseiller (à … de + infinitive) (to) advise, recommend (to someone + verb) | advising, recommending (to someone + verb) H O
971 n (f) réunion meeting H O
973 n (f) maladie illness H O
976 n (f) construction construction, building H O
979 n (m) voisin neighbour H O
982 n (m) novembre November H O
984 v coûter (to) cost | costing H O
986 n (f) presse press H O
987 adj rouge red (m, f) H O
988 n (f) majorité majority H O
991 n (m) bord edge, side H O
992 adj central central (m) H O
995 n (f) éducation education H O
996 adj officiel official (m) H O
997 n (m) document document H O
999 v retourner (to) return, go back, turn over, turn around | returning, going back, turning over, turning around H O
1000 adj professionnel professional (m) H O
1002 n (m) animal animal, pet H R
n (mpl) animaux animals, pets H O
1003 adj utile useful (m, f) H O
1004 v inscrire; s'inscrire à + noun (to) write down | writing down; (to) join + noun, enrol in + noun | joining + noun, enrolling in + noun H O
1005 n (f) concurrence competition H O
1008 num mille thousand H O
1009 adv absolument absolutely H O
1013 adv complètement completely H O
1015 n (m) salaire salary, wage H O
1016 n (f) lecture reading H O
1017 v contribuer (to) contribute | contributing H O
1018 v attaquer (to) attack | attacking H O
1019 n (f) table table H O
1022 n (m) avril April H O
1023 adv autrement differently, another way H O
1024 n (f) ferme farm, firm H O
1026 adj lourd heavy (m) H O
1028 n (f) république republic H O
1029 adj dur* hard (m) H O
adv dur** hard H O
1030 n (f) application/appli application/app H O
1031 v lutter (to) fight, struggle | fighting, struggling H O
1033 v contenir (to) contain, include | containing, including H O
1036 n (f) communication communication H O
1038 n (m) manque lack H O
1039 n (m) échec failure H O
1040 v traverser (to) cross | crossing H O
1041 v transformer (en + noun) (to) transform (into + noun) | transforming (into + noun) H O
1043 n (m) frère brother H O
1044 n (m) mardi; à mardi ! Tuesday; see you on Tuesday! H O
1046 n (m) vote vote H O
1047 v renvoyer (to) send back, resend | sending back, resending H O
1048 v regretter (to) be sorry, regret | being sorry, regretting H O
1049 n (f) espèce species H O
1052 v réagir (to) react | reacting H O
1053 v surprendre (to) surprise | surprising H O
1056 v améliorer (to) improve | improving H O
1058 v réfléchir (à + noun) (to) reflect (on), think (about) | reflecting (on), thinking (about) H O
1059 n (f) lumière light H O
1060 adj vert green (m) H O
1061 v apprécier (to) appreciate, like | appreciating, liking H O
1063 adj sensible sensitive (m, f) H O
1064 n (m) étudiant student H O
1065 n (f) vitesse speed H O
1066 adj malade ill (m, f) H O
1068 n (m, f) élève pupil, student (m, f) H R
1069 v contrôler (to) check, inspect, control | checking, inspecting, controlling H O
1070 intj merci thank you H O
1071 adv certainement certainly H O
1072 n (f) visite visit, tour H O
1074 n (f) émission TV programme H O
1075 n (f) arrivée arrival H O
1076 n (f) puissance power H O
1077 n (m, f) partenaire partner H O
1079 n (f) perte loss H O
1080 adj libéral liberal (m) H O
1081 n (m) citoyen citizen H O
1083 n (f) influence influence H O
1085 n (m) établissement establishment, organisation H O
1086 n (m) vendredi; à vendredi ! Friday; see you on Friday! H O
1089 v causer (to) cause | causing H O
1090 n (m) nord north H O
1091 n (m) lundi; à lundi ! Monday; see you on Monday! H O

=== PDF page 91 ===
1096 n (f) vente sale H O
1098 n (m) soldat soldier H O
1099 n (m, f) collègue colleague H O
1103 prep voici here is H O
1108 v examiner (to) examine | examining H O
1109 n (m) soin care H O
1111 n (m) traitement treatment H O
1112 n (m) jeudi; à jeudi ! Thursday; see you on Thursday! H O
1114 n (f) science science H O
1115 n (m) individu individual H O
1117 adj demi half H O
1122 v mériter (de + infinitive); se mériter (to) deserve (+ verb) | deserving (+ verb); (to) have earned | having earned H O
1123 v emprunter (à ...) (to) borrow (from someone) | borrowing (from someone) H O
1125 v traduire (to) translate | translating H R
1126 n (m) sang blood H O
1127 n (m) millier thousand H O
1128 v emporter (to) take with, take away | taking with, taking away H O
1130 adj nucléaire nuclear (m, f) H O
1131 adj industriel industrial (m) H O
1132 adj vif lively (m) H O
1133 adj exact exact, correct (m) H O
1136 n (m) février February H O
1137 n (f) mode way, fashion H O
1139 n (f) musique music H O
1145 n (f) étape stage, step H O
1146 n (f) physique physics H O
1148 adv parfaitement perfectly H O
1150 n (m) professeur/prof teacher (m) H O
1152 v distribuer (to) hand out, give out | handing out, giving out H O
1155 adj global global (m) H O
1156 intj dommage ! what a shame! H O
1161 n (f) note mark, grade H O
1166 n (m) règlement rule, regulation H O
1167 n (m) couple couple H O
1168 n (m) mercredi; à mercredi ! Wednesday; see you on Wednesday! H O
1169 adj régional regional (m) H O
1174 n (f) sortie exit H O
1176 v décrire (to) describe | describing H R
1178 adj récent recent (m) H R
1179 n (f) télévision/télé television/TV H O
1181 n (m) art art H O
1182 n (f) frontière border H O
1183 adj égal equal (m) H O
1184 n (f) promesse promise H O
1186 v habiter (to) live (somewhere) | living (somewhere) H O
1187 n (m) quartier district, quarter H O
1188 n (m) avocat lawyer (m) H O
1191 adj vivant alive, living (m) H O
1192 n (f) université university H O
1193 v rire (to) laugh | laughing H R
v ris | ris ! (I) laugh | (I) am laughing | (I) have been laughing | (you (sing informal)) laugh | (you (sing informal)) 
are laughing | (you (sing informal)) have been laughing | laugh! (sing informal)
H R
v rit (she, he, it, one) laughs | (she, he, it, one) is laughing | (she, he, it, one) has been laughing | (we 
(informal, impersonal)) laugh | (we (informal, impersonal)) are laughing | (we (informal, impersonal)) 
have been laughing
H R
v (aux) ri laughed | (have, has) laughed H R
1194 adv facilement easily H O
1198 n (m) soutien support H O
1199 n (f) urgence emergency H O
1200 n (f) clé key H O
1202 v jeter (to) throw | throwing H R
1203 adj religieux religious (m) H O
1205 adj disponible available (m, f) H O
1207 v prévenir (to) let know, warn | letting know, warning H O
1208 adv bientôt; à bientôt !     soon; see you soon! H R
1210 n (m) mariage marriage, wedding H O
1211 n (f) couleur colour H O
1213 v sauver; se sauver (to) rescue, save | rescuing, saving; (to) escape, get away | escaping, getting away H O
1216 adj bleu blue (m) H O
1217 adv dehors outside H O
1218 v remercier (to) thank | thanking H O
1219 adj actif active, energetic (m) H O
1221 n (f) habitude habit H O
1222 adv récemment recently H O
1225 adj excellent excellent (m) H O
1226 adj moral moral (m) H O
1227 n (m) accident accident H O
1229 adj puissant powerful (m) H O
1231 v fabriquer (to) manufacture, produce, make | manufacturing, producing, making H O
1233 adj rare rare (m, f) H O
1234 adj extraordinaire extraordinary (m, f) H O
1235 n (m) dimanche; à dimanche ! Sunday; see you on Sunday! H O
1238 v enregistrer (to) record, save | recording, saving H O
1239 adj moderne modern (m, f) H O
1240 n (m) parc park H O
1241 n (m) impôt tax H O

=== PDF page 92 ===
1242 n (m) sud south H O
1243 adj efficace efficient, effective (m, f) H O
1244 adj intéressant interesting (m) H O
1245 n (f) île island H O
1246 n (f) cité council estate H O
1247 n (f) carrière career H O
1248 v voter (to) vote | voting H O
1250 n (f) libération liberation H O
1251 v nourrir (to) feed | feeding H O
1253 n (m) bras arm H O
1256 v rechercher (to) look for, collect | looking for, collecting H O
1258 n (m) lendemain next day H O
1262 n (m) roman novel H O
1264 n (m) facteur postman H O
1265 n (m) policier policeman H O
n (f) policière policewoman H O
1266 n (f) échelle ladder, scale H O
1268 v pratiquer (to) do, play, practise (a language)|doing, playing, practising (a language) H O
1269 n (f) pensée thought H O
1270 adj extrême extreme H O
1272 v bénéficier de + noun (to) get, receive, benefit from + noun | getting, receiving, benefitting from + noun H O
1273 num vingt twenty H O
1278 n (m) retard delay H O
1279 n (f) démocratie democracy H O
1281 n (m) silence silence H O
1287 n (m) bateau boat, ship H O
1288 n (m) printemps spring H O
1289 n (f) course race, shopping H O
n (fpl) courses food shopping H O
1290 n (m) exercice written exercise, physical exercise H O
1292 n (m) visage face H O
1293 n (f) droite right H O
1295 n (m) village village H O
1296 adj britannique British (m, f) H O
1300 n (f) leçon lesson H O
1302 v décevoir (to) disappoint | disappointing H O
v déçois | déçois ! (I) disappoint | (I) am disappointing | (I) have been disappointing | (you (sing informal)) disappoint | 
(you (sing informal)) are disappointing | (you (sing informal)) have been disappointing | disappoint! (sing 
informal)
H O
v déçoit (she, he, it, one) disappoints | (she, he, it, one) is disappointing | (she, he, it, one) has been disappointing 
| (we (informal, impersonal)) disappoint | (we (informal, impersonal)) are disappointing | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) have been disappointing
H O
v (aux) déçu disappointed | (have, has) disappointed H O
1303 n (f) bataille battle H O
1305 n (f) naissance birth H O
1307 adj froid cold (m) H O
1308 n (m) hôpital hospital H O
n (mpl) hôpitaux hospitals H O
1310 adj terrible terrible, dreadful (m) H O
1313 n (m) rêve dream H O
1314 v inspirer; s'inspirer de + noun (to) inspire | inspiring; (to) be inspired by + noun | being inspired by + noun H O
1316 adv entièrement entirely, completely H O
1317 n (m) chapitre chapter H O
1318 adj quotidien daily (m) H O
1324 n (m) après-midi afternoon H O
1326 n (m) juillet July H O
1327 adj ordinaire ordinary (m, f) H O
1328 n (m) candidat candidate H O
1331 adj fier proud (m) H O
1333 n (m) habitant resident (m) H O
1335 n (m) mur wall H O
1337 n (m, f) journaliste journalist H O
1338 v manger (to) eat | eating H R
1340 adv évidemment obviously H O
1341 adj travailleur hard-working (m) H O
adj travailleuse hard-working (f) H O
1344 n (f) marque brand, mark H O
1345 n (f) utilisation use H O
1349 adj populaire popular (m, f) H O
1351 n (f) participation participation H R
1352 n (f) évolution evolution H O
1354 v gérer (to) manage, handle, deal with | managing, handling, dealing with H O
1355 n (m) samedi; à samedi ! Saturday; see you on Saturday! H O
1357 adj fou crazy (m) H O
adj folle crazy (f) H O
1360 v asseoir; s'asseoir (to) sit | sitting; (to) sit down | sitting down H O
v assieds/assois | assieds !/assois !; 
m'assieds/m'assois | t'assieds/t'assois | 
t'assieds !/t'assois !
(I) sit | (I) am sitting | (I) have been sitting | (you (sing informal)) sit | (you (sing informal)) are sitting | 
(you (sing informal)) have been sitting | sit! (sing informal); (I) sit down | (I) am sitting down | (I) have 
been sitting down | (you (sing informal)) sit down | (you (sing informal)) are sitting down | (you (sing 
informal)) have been sitting down | sit down! (sing informal)
H O
v assied/assoit; s'assied/s'assoit (she, he, it, one) sits | (she, he, it, one) is sitting | (she, he, it, one) has been sitting | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) sit | (we (informal, impersonal)) are sitting | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been sitting; 
(she, he, it, one) sits down | (she, he, it, one) is sitting down | (she, he, it, one) has been sitting down | 
(we (informal, impersonal)) sit down | (we (informal, impersonal)) are sitting down | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) have been sitting down
H O
v (aux) assis | s'(aux) assis sat | (have, has) sat; sat down | (have, has) sat down H O

=== PDF page 93 ===
1364 n (m) roi king H O
1366 n (m) téléphone telephone H O
1368 n (f) foi faith H O
1371 n (f) tradition tradition H O
1373 n (f) victoire victory H O
1374 n (m) arrêt stop H O
1375 n (m) concours entrance exam, competition H O
1378 v visiter (to) visit | visiting H O
1379 pron elle-même herself H O
1380 adj démocratique democratic (m, f) H O
1382 adv largement widely H O
1384 v désirer (to) want, desire | wanting, desiring H O
1385 n (f) côte coast H O
1386 n (f) génération generation H O
1387 n (m) vent wind H O
1388 n (f) technologie technology H O
1389 v inquiéter; s'inquiéter (de + noun) (to) bother, disturb | bothering, disturbing; (to) be worried (about + noun) | being worried (about + 
noun)
H O
1392 adj inquiet worried, anxious (m) H O
adj inquiète worried, anxious (f) H O
1398 v ressembler à + noun; se ressembler (to) look like + noun | looking like + noun; (to) look alike | looking alike H O
1399 n (f) station station H O
1400 v supporter (to) tolerate, bear, put up with | tolerating, bearing, putting up with H O
1406 n (m, f) propriétaire owner H O
1409 n (m) avion aeroplane H O
1412 n (f) photo photo H R
1417 n (f) centaine hundred H O
1418 n (f) explication explanation H O
1420 n (m) appareil apparatus, device H O
1425 n (m) bois* wood H O
1429 adj idéal ideal (m) H O
1430 n (m) chômage unemployment H O
1431 n (m) courage courage H O
1433 n (m) entretien interview, maintenance H O
1434 v encourager (à + infinitive) (to) encourage (+ verb) | encouraging (+ verb) H O
1435 n (m) kilomètre kilometre H O
1437 n (f) identité identity H O
1441 n (m) contexte context H O
1445 n (m) août August H O
1447 v courir (to) run | running H R
v cours** | cours !** (I) run | (I) am running | (I) have been running | (you (sing informal)) run | (you (sing informal)) are 
running | (you (sing informal)) have been running | run! (sing informal)
H R
v court** (she, he, it, one) runs | (she, he, it, one) is running | (she, he, it, one) has been running | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) run | (we (informal, impersonal)) are running | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been 
running
H R
v (aux) couru ran | (have, has) run H R
1448 n (m) examen exam H O
1449 n (m) personnage character, individual, person H O
1455 n (f) ouverture opening H O
1456 n (m) tableau board, picture, painting H O
1461 adj final final H O
1462 n (m) site site H O
1464 n (f) durée length, duration H O
1465 v élire (to) elect | electing H O
v (aux) élu elected | (have, has) elected H O
1467 n (f) inquiétude worry, anxiety H O
1470 adj pareil the same (m) H O
adj pareille the same (f) H O
1472 num quinze fifteen H O
1473 adj vide empty (m, f) H O
1475 n (m) essai attempt, try, test H O
1476 v sourire (to) smile | smiling H O
v souris | souris ! (I) smile | (I) am smiling | (I) have been smiling | (you (sing informal)) smile | (you (sing informal)) are 
smiling | (you (sing informal)) have been smiling | smile! (sing informal)
H O
v sourit (she, he, it, one) smiles | (she, he, it, one) is smiling | (she, he, it, one) has been smiling  (we (informal, 
impersonal)) smile | (we (informal, impersonal)) are smiling | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been 
smiling
H O
v (aux) souri smiled | (have, has) smiled H O
1479 v interrompre (to) interrupt, halt | interrupting, halting H O
1482 n (f) usine factory H O
1483 v unir (to) unite, join | uniting, joining H O
1485 n (m) employé employee, worker H O
1488 adj évident obvious (m) H O
1489 n (m) comportement behaviour H O
1490 n (f) fête party, festival H O
1491 n (m) sol floor, ground H O
1493 n (f) vague wave H O
1494 n (f) réduction reduction H O
1495 adj culturel cultural (m) H O
1496 n (f) coopération cooperation H O
1499 n (m, f) leader leader H O
1500 n (f) taille size, height H R
1501 n (m) contenu contents H O
1502 n (f) distance distance H O
1503 n (m) automne autumn H O
1507 v diminuer (to) lower, decrease | lowering, decreasing H O
1510 adj juif Jewish (m) H O

=== PDF page 94 ===
1514 v communiquer (to) pass on, communicate | passing on, communicating H O
1519 v démontrer (to) demonstrate | demonstrating H O
1520 adj négatif negative (m) H O
1524 n (m) bruit noise H O
1525 n (f) humanité humanity H O
1526 n (f) radio radio H O
1527 pron moi-même myself H O
1530 n (f) soirée evening H O
1531 n (m) vol flight, theft H O
1532 v marcher (to) walk, work | walking, working H O
1534 n (m) mètre metre H O
1536 adj occidental western (m) H O
1537 adj suffisant sufficient (m) H O
1538 n (m) ciel sky H O
1539 v tromper; se tromper (to) cheat, deceive | cheating, deceiving; (to) make a mistake | making a mistake H O
1542 n (f) seconde second, year 11 H O
1550 adv effectivement effectively H O
1551 n (m) gaz gas H O
1552 n (m) acteur actor (m) H O
1553 v adapter; s'adapter (to) adapt, adjust | adapting, adjusting; (to) get used to | getting used to H O
1554 n (f) cour courtyard, playground H R
1556 n (m) souci worry, concern H O
1557 n (m) expert expert H O
1558 n (f) sœur sister H O
1559 adv relativement relatively H O
1560 v comparer (to) compare | comparing H O
1564 adj conscient conscious, aware (m) H O
1566 adj médical medical (m) H O
1568 n (f) colère anger H O
1569 adj patient patient (m) H O
1571 n (m) siège seat, bench H O
1574 adj traditionnel traditional (m) H R
1575 n (m) quart quarter H O
1578 adj catholique Catholic (m, f) H O
1580 n (m, f) adulte adult H O
1582 n (m) métier job, occupation H O
1584 v peser (to) weigh | weighing H O
1585 n (mpl) médias media H O
1586 n (m) hiver winter H O
1587 n (f) définition definition H O
1589 n (m) mari husband H O
1599 n (m) garçon boy, waiter H O
1600 adj parfait perfect (m) H O
1603 n (f) quatrième year 9 H O
1604 n (f) fenêtre window H O
1606 v hésiter (to) be unsure, hesitate | being unsure, hesitating H O
1607 n (f) menace threat H O
1609 n (f) jeunesse youth H O
1610 v voler (à ...) (to) fly, steal (from someone) | flying, stealing (from someone) H O
1614 adj inutile useless (m, f) H O
1616 n (m) poisson fish H O
1617 n (f) révolution revolution H O
1619 v avouer (to) admit to, confess to | admitting to, confessing to H O
1622 adj familial family (m) H O
1623 n (m) cinéma cinema H O
1626 n (m) enseignement education, teaching H O
1627 adj étonnant surprising, amazing, incredible (m) H O
1628 n (f) dizaine approximately ten H O
1632 n (f) instruction instruction, direction H O
1634 v oser (to) dare | daring H O
1639 v corriger (to) correct, mark | correcting, marking H O
1642 n (m) désir desire H O
1645 v prier (to) pray | praying H O
1646 num trente thirty H O
1650 n (m) instrument instrument H O
1651 n (f) indépendance independence H O
1652 n (m) tort wrong H O
1654 v critiquer (to) criticise | criticising H O
1655 n (f) attaque attack H O
1659 n (f) drogue drug H O
1662 n (m) rythme rhythm, rate H O
1664 num douze twelve H O
1666 adj espagnol Spanish (m) H O
1667 n (f) saison season H O
1672 n (m) dos back H O
1673 n (m) consommateur consumer, customer H O
1678 v rêver (à/de + noun) (to) dream (about + noun) | dreaming (about + noun) H O
1680 n (f) quantité quantity H O
1682 v persuader de + infinitive (to) persuade + verb | persuading + verb H O
1684 adj annuel annual, yearly (m) H O
1685 n (m) commentaire comment, remark H O
1686 v marier; se marier (avec) (to) marry | marrying; (to) get married (to) | getting married (to) H O
1687 n (m) spectacle sight, show H O
1689 adj célèbre famous (m) H O
1690 n (m) ouest west H O
1691 n (m) sexe sex H O
1694 n (m) accent accent H O

=== PDF page 95 ===
1697 n (m) concert concert H O
1699 n (f) religion religion H O
1701 n (m) théâtre theatre, drama H O
1704 n (m) équipement equipment H O
1705 v descendre; descendre de + noun (to) go down, ride down, drive down | going down, riding down, driving down; (to) get off + noun, get 
out of + noun | getting off + noun, getting out of + noun
H O
1706 n (m) patron boss H O
1708 n (m) abri shelter H O
1709 n (f) recette recipe H O
1710 adv généralement generally H O
1713 n (m) soleil sun H O
1715 n (m) ennemi enemy H O
1719 n (m) dialogue dialogue H O
1720 n (m) thème theme, topic H O
1722 n (m, f) porte-parole spokesperson, spokeswoman, spokesman H O
1724 n (f) forêt forest H O
1725 n (m) outil tool H O
1726 n (f) vacances holiday H O
1727 adv suffisamment sufficiently H O
1728 n (m) défi challenge H O
1731 adj calme calm, quiet (m, f) H O
1732 n (f) montagne mountain H O
1734 adv apparemment apparently H O
1736 n (m) magasin shop H O
1738 n (m) écrivain writer H O
1744 n (m) chien dog H O
1746 adj indispensable essential (m, f) H O
1747 n (f) conversation conversation H O
1749 v féliciter (to) congratulate | congratulating H O
1753 n (m) euro euro H O
1757 n (f) compétence competence, skill H O
1763 adj sain healthy (m) H O
1764 v intégrer; s'intégrer (to) incorporate, integrate, include| incorporating, integrating, including; (to) become integrated, fit in | 
becoming integrated, fitting in
H O
1767 n (f) pierre stone H O
1770 adj régulier regular (m) H O
1771 n (f) boîte box H O
1774 n (m) hôtel hotel H O
1777 adv là-bas over there, out there H O
1782 n (f) église church H O
1791 n (f) découverte discovery H O
1797 n (m, f) artiste artist H O
1798 n (m) coin corner H O
1801 n (m) uniforme uniform H O
1803 n (f) grève strike H O
1804 n (m) achat purchase H O
1814 adj original original (m) H O
1815 n (f) surprise surprise H O
1818 n (f) capitale capital city H O
1820 v chanter (to) sing | singing H O
1824 n (f) neige snow H O
1828 adj étroit narrow, tight (m) H O
1829 n (m) goût taste, flavour H O
1832 n (f) catastrophe catastrophe, disaster H O
1835 n (f) manifestation demonstration, event H O
1836 v dormir (to) sleep | sleeping H O
1837 n (m) lit bed H O
1838 n (f) bouche mouth H O
1841 adj content glad, pleased (m) H O
1843 adj triste sad (m, f) H O
1849 n (m) logement accommodation H O
1851 n (f) plainte moan, complaint H O
1852 adj chaud hot, warm (m) H O
1854 n (f) émotion emotion, feeling H O
1856 v progresser (to) progress | progressing H R
1859 adj strict strict (m) H O
1860 n (m) club club H O
1862 n (f) souffrance suffering H O
1866 n (f) passion passion H O
1873 n (m) rendez-vous appointment H O
1874 n (m) argument argument H O
1875 n (f) planète planet H O
1878 n (m) attentat attack, assassination attempt H O
1879 v boire (to) drink | drinking H R
v bois**| bois ! (I) drink | (I) am drinking | (I) have been drinking | (you (sing informal)) drink | (you (sing informal)) are 
drinking | (you (sing informal)) have been drinking | drink! (sing informal)
H R
v boit (she, he, it, one) drinks | (she, he, it, one) is drinking | (she, he, it, one) has been drinking | (we (informal, 
impersonal)) drink | (we (informal, impersonal)) are drinking | (we (informal, impersonal)) have been 
drinking
H R
v (aux) bu drank | (have, has) drunk H R
1880 n (f) richesse wealth H O
1881 n (f) caisse checkout H O
1883 n (m) héros hero (m) H O
n (f) héroïne hero (f) H O
1884 n (f) oreille ear H O
1885 n (m) incident incident H O

=== PDF page 96 ===
1886 n (m) café café, coffee H O
1887 n (f) annonce announcement H O
1888 adv régulièrement regularly H O
1889 n (m) pont bridge H O
1893 v bouger (to) move|moving H O
1895 adj chrétien Christian (m) H R
1898 n (f) égalité equality H O
1903 v préserver (to) preserve, protect | preserving, protecting H O
1906 n (m) match match H O
1910 n (f) tragédie tragedy H O
1912 n (m) scandale scandal, uproar H O
1914 adj chinois Chinese (m) H O
1916 n (m) billet ticket H O
1917 n (m) choc shock, clash H O
1921 n (f) destruction destruction H O
1925 n (f) adresse address H O
1926 n (f) réception reception H O
1930 v brûler (to) burn, be on fire | burning, being on fire H O
1936 v grandir (to) get bigger, get taller, grow | getting bigger, getting taller, growing H O
1940 n (f) poche pocket H O
1943 n (f) honte shame H O
1948 n (m) bonheur happiness H O
1950 v crier (to) shout, scream, cry out | shouting, screaming, crying out H O
1951 n (f) pauvreté poverty H O
1952 n (m) bâtiment building H O
1954 n (m) médicament medicine, drug H O
1957 n (m) électeur elector, voter H O
1959 n (m) véhicule vehicle H O
1961 n (m) chercheur researcher (m) H O
1963 n (f) personnalité personality H O
1964 v inventer (to) invent, make up |  inventing, making up H O
1967 n (m) stade stadium, stage H O
1970 adj québécois from Quebec (m) H O
1972 n (m) bonjour hello, good morning H O
1983 n (f) dame lady H O
1984 n (f) joie joy H O
1986 n (f) faim hunger H R
1987 v excuser (de/pour + noun); s'excuser 
(de/pour + noun)
(to) excuse (for + noun), forgive (for + noun) | excusing (for + noun), forgiving (for + noun); (to) apologise 
(for + noun) | apologising (for + noun)
H O
1988 v recommander (to) recommend | recommending H O
1993 adj scolaire school (m, f) H O
1994 adj arabe Arabic, Arab (m, f) H O
1995 v diffuser (to) diffuse, broadcast | diffusing, broadcasting H O
1997 adj inquiétant worrying, disturbing (m) H O
1998 v inclure (to) include | including H O
v (aux) inclus included | (have, has) included H O
1999 n (m) style style H R
2002 v annuler (to) cancel, undo | cancelling, undoing H O>
2006 n (m) climat climate H O>
2007 n (m) séjour stay H O>
2011 n (m) sport sport H O>
2018 adv normalement normally H O>
2024 v blesser (to) hurt, injure | hurting, injuring H O>
2043 n (f) anniversaire birthday H O>
2085 n (m) adolescent/ado teenager, adolescent H O>
2086 v dessiner (to) draw | drawing H O>
2110 n (f) publicité/pub advert H O>
2111 n (m) arbre tree H O>
2113 n (m) aéroport airport H O>
2116 n (m) collège secondary school H O>
2122 n (f) peau skin H O>
2134 v enseigner (à ... à + infinitive) (to) teach (someone + verb) | teaching (someone + verb) H O>
2142 n (f) chanson song H O>
2160 v coucher; se coucher (to) lie down; sleep | lying down, sleeping; (to) go to bed, set (sun) | going to bed, setting (sun) H O>
2166 adj drôle funny (m, f) H O>
2167 n (m) plat dish H O>
2168 n (f) maman mum, mummy H O>
2170 v célébrer (to) celebrate | celebrating H O>
2174 n (m) verre glass H O>
2185 v casser; se casser (to) break | breaking; (to) break a body part | breaking a body part H O>
2186 adj probable probable, likely H O>
2191 n (m) plastique plastic H O>
2194 v voyager (to) travel (around) | travelling (around) H O>
2201 n (m) ordinateur computer H O>
2205 intj salut hi, bye H O>
2207 n (f) enfance childhood H O>
2216 n (m) musée museum H O>
2217 n (f) pluie rain H O>
2223 n (f) rivière river H O>
2241 adj suisse Swiss (m, f) H O>
2245 adj musulman Muslim (m) H O>
2262 n (m) dieu god H O>
2269 n (m) étage floor H O>
2273 num cinquante fifty H O>
2284 n (m) jardin garden H O>
2285 n (f) nourriture food H O>
2289 adj africain African (m) H O>

=== PDF page 97 ===
2293 n (f) circulation traffic H O>
2296 n (mpl) cheveux hair H O>
2298 n (m) cadeau present, gift H O>
2305 n (f) fleur flower H O>
2309 n (m) vin wine H O>
2322 v adorer (to) really like, love, adore | really liking, loving, adoring H O>
2323 n (m) appartement apartment, flat H O>
2336 n (m) restaurant restaurant H O>
2343 n (m) sac bag, sack H O>
2365 n (m)/v dîner; dîner dinner; (to) have dinner H O>
2372 adj malheureux unhappy, sad, unfortunate, regrettable H O>
2373 adj numérique digital (m, f) H O>
2383 n (m) vêtement garment, item or article of clothing H O>
2390 adv heureusement fortunately, luckily H O>
2393 n (m) tabac tobacco H O>
2398 adj joli pretty, attractive (m) H O>
2421 n (m) écran screen H O>
2435 n (m) oiseau bird H O>
2436 num quarante forty H O>
2440 n (f) feuille leaf, sheet H O>
2447 num onze eleven H O>
2465 n (m) alcool alcohol H O>
2470 adj gratuit free (of charge) (m) H O>
2472 n (f) jambe leg H O>
2475 n (m) week-end weekend H O>
2483 n (m) midi noon H R
2507 n (m) lait milk H O>
2509 adj intelligent intelligent (m) H O>
2511 n (f) bibliothèque library H O>
2537 n (f) diversité diversity H O>
2541 n (m) accueil welcome, reception H O>
2555 adj tranquille quiet (m, f) H O>
2572 adj lent slow H O>
2580 n (f) glace ice cream, ice H O>
2581 n (f) gare station, railway station H O>
2588 n (f) informatique computer science, computing H O>
2602 n (m) foot(ball) football, soccer H O>
2611 n (f) vidéo video H O>
2618 n (f) cuisine cooking, kitchen H O>
2623 v fumer (to) smoke | smoking H O>
2625 n (f) viande meat H O>
2634 n (m) paysage landscape, scenery, countryside H O>
2653 n (m) touriste tourist H O>
2670 adj sportif athletic, competitive, sporty, sporting (m) H O>
2683 v mentir (to) lie | lying H O>
2691 n (f) tournée tour, round H O>
2693 n (f) plage beach H O>
2702 n (f) plante plant H O>
2722 adj formidable terrific, astounding (m,f) H O>
2724 n (m)/v déjeuner; déjeuner lunch; (to) have lunch H O>
2725 v disputer; se disputer (to) scold, tell off | scolding, telling off; (to) argue | arguing H O>
2729 n (m) salon lounge, living room H O>
2769 adj gris grey (m,f) H O>
2774 v ranger (to) tidy, put away | tidying, putting away H O>
2776 n (f) étoile star H O>
2795 adj belge Belgian (m, f) H O>
2802 n (m) pain bread H O>
2816 n (m) lycée college, sixth form H O>
2832 adj gentil kind (m) H O>
2841 adj agréable pleasant, nice, agreeable (m, f) H O>
2855 n (f) cigarette cigarette H O>
2882 n (m) déchets rubbish H O>
2886 n (f) affiche poster H O>
2898 v détester (to) hate, detest | hating, detesting H O>
2906 adj sale dirty (m, f) H O>
2908 n (m) chapeau hat H O>
2929 n (m) boulot work, job H O>
2934 v danser (to) dance | dancing H O>
2944 n (f) banlieue suburbs, outskirts H O>
2948 n (m) repas meal H O>
2972 n (f) rentrée reopening, return, start of the school year H O>
2993 adj super great H O>
3011 v poster (to) post | posting H O>
3020 n (m) copain friend (m), boyfriend H O>
n (f) copine friend, girlfriend H O>
3031 n (m) poème poem H O>
3073 n (f) pollution pollution H O>
3117 n (m) légume vegetable H O>
3118 adj francophone French-speaking (m, f) H O>
3121 n (m) lac lake H O>
3148 n (f) Mademoiselle Miss, Ms, (sing), miss H O>
3151 num soixante sixty H O>
3169 v allumer (to) turn on | turning on H O>
3227 n (m) métro underground, metro H O>
3229 adj fatigué tired (m) H O>
3245 num treize thirteen H O>
3251 n (m) chanteur singer H R

=== PDF page 98 ===
3285 num seize sixteen H O>
3322 n (f) star star, celebrity H O>
3359 num quatorze fourteen H O>
3362 adj célibataire single, unmarried (m, f) H O>
3387 n (m) cousin cousin H O>
3399 n (m) inconvénient snag, drawback, disadvantage, inconvenience H O>
3419 n (f) chaise chair H O>
3438 n (fpl) maths mathematics/maths H O>
3441 n (m) temple temple H O>
3453 n (m) minuit midnight H O>
3458 n (m) bain bath, bathing H O>
3469 adj marocain Moroccan (m) H O>
3503 v laver; se laver (to) wash (something) | washing (something); (to) get washed | getting washed H O>
3510 n (m) château castle, palace H O>
3517 n (m) thé tea H R
3566 n (m) bagage luggage, baggage H O>
3613 adj handicapé disabled (m) H O>
3614 n (f) boisson drink, beverage H O>
3628 n (m) oncle uncle H O>
3636 n (m) apprentissage apprenticeship H O
3714 intj bienvenue ! welcome H O>
3737 n (m) couteau knife H O>
3746 n (m) manteau coat H O>
3835 adj timide timid, shy, bashful (m, f) H R
3858 n (m) festival festival H O
3872 adj génial great, brilliant (m) H O>
3887 v nettoyer (to) clean | cleaning H O>
3891 n (f) tante aunt H O>
3937 n (m) handicap disability H O>
3938 intj bonsoir good evening H O>
3987 adj joyeux merry, joyful, happy (m) H O>
3999 v harceler (to) bully, harass | bullying, harassing H O>
4001 n (m) cahier exercise book H O>
4002 n (m) portable mobile phone, laptop H O>
4007 n (m) stage work experience H O>
4094 n (m) dictionnaire dictionary H O>
4164 adj sympathique/sympa nice, kind, friendly (m, f) H O>
4215 n (f) toilette washing, toilet, lavatory, bathroom, restroom H O>
4216 n (m) autobus/bus bus H O>
4222 n (m) poulet chicken H O>
4308 n (f) valise suitcase H O>
4369 adj affreux dreadful, awful, horrible (m) H O>
4377 n (m) serveur waiter, server H O>
4451 v/adj (aux) interdit; interdit prohibited, banned; prohibited, banned (m) H O>
4452 n (m) brouillard fog, mist, haze H O
4475 n (m) fromage cheese H O>
4506 n (m, f) bénévole volunteer H O>
4574 n (f) météo weather forecast H O>
4594 n (m) vélo bike, bicycle H O>
4603 n (m) est** east H O>
4659 n (f) soif thirst H O>
4670 n (m) pantalon trousers H O>
4805 adj raciste racist (m, f) H O>
4822 n (f) blague joke H O>
4845 n (m) gâteau cake H O>
n/a n (f) addition bill H O>
n/a n (f) Afrique Africa H O>
n/a n (m) aidant carer H O>
n/a adj amusant funny, fun, enjoyable, amusing (m) H O>
n/a n (f) Angleterre England H O>
n/a n (f) Asie Asia H O>
n/a adj bavard chatty, talkative (m) H O>
n/a n (m) beau-père step-father, father-in-law H O>
n/a n (f) belle-mère step-mother, mother-in-law H O>
n/a adj bi(sexuel) bi(sexual) (m) H O>
n/a n (m) blog blog H O>
n/a adj bouddhiste Buddhist (m, f) H O>
n/a n (f) boulangerie bakery H O>
n/a adj brun brown (m) H O
n/a n (m) camping camping H O>
n/a n (f) célébrité celebrity H O>
n/a v chatter/tchatter (to) chat | chatting H O>
n/a v cliquer (to) click | clicking H O>
n/a n (f) Corse Corsica H O>
n/a n (m) défilé parade, procession H O>
n/a adj désolé sorry (m) H O>
n/a adj embêtant annoying (m) H O>
n/a intj enchanté ! pleased to meet you! H O>
n/a adj ennuyeux boring (m) H O>
n/a adj équilibré balanced (m) H O>
n/a n (f) Europe Europe H O>
n/a n (m) fast-food fast food H O>
n/a intj félicitations congratulations H O>
n/a adj férié public holiday (m) H O>
n/a n (fpl) frites chips H O>
n/a adj gay gay (m, f) H O>
n/a n (f) géographie geography H O>

=== PDF page 99 ===
n/a adj hétéro straight, heterosexual (m, f) H O>
n/a n (m) influenceur influencer H O>
n/a n (m) internet internet H O>
n/a n (m) Londres London H O>
n/a n (m) mail/e-mail e-mail H O>
n/a adj méchant nasty, naughty, mean (m) H O>
n/a n (f) mosquée mosque H O>
n/a v nager (to) swim | swimming H O>
n/a n (f) natation swimming H O>
n/a adj non-binaire non-binary (m, f) H O>
n/a n (m) PACS civil partnership H O>
n/a adv parce que/qu' because H O>
n/a adj paresseux lazy (m) (mpl, mixed gender pl) H O>
n/a n (m) passe-temps hobby H O>
n/a adj passionnant exciting, thrilling (m) H O>
n/a n (m) petit-déjeuner breakfast H O>
n/a n (f) piscine swimming pool H O>
n/a v polluer (to) pollute │ polluting H O>
n/a n (f) poubelle rubbish bin H O>
n/a n (f) promenade walk H O>
n/a adj queer queer (m, f) H O>
n/a v recharger (to) charge (an appliance) | charging (an appliance) H O>
n/a n (m) réchauffement warming H O>
n/a n (f) récré(ation) break (time) H O>
n/a n (m) recyclage recycling H O>
n/a v recycler (to) recycle | recycling H O>
n/a adj sabbatique sabbatical, gap (m, f) H O>
n/a v se relaxer (to) relax | relaxing H O>
n/a n (m) selfie selfie H O>
n/a n (m) shopping shopping H O>
n/a n (m) SMS SMS H O>
n/a n (m) streaming streaming H O>
n/a n (m) stylo pen H O>
n/a n (m) supermarché supermarket H O>
n/a n (f) synagogue synagogue H O>
n/a v télécharger (to) download | downloading H O>
n/a n (m) ticket ticket H O>
n/a pron toi-même yourself [singular] H O>
n/a adj transgenre trans (m, f) H O>
n/a n (f) Tunisie Tunisia H O>
n/a v vapoter (to) vape | vaping H O>
n/a adj végan vegan (m) H O>
n/a adj végétarien vegetarian (m) H O>
n/a mwp à cause de because of H O>
n/a mwp à gauche on the left H O>
n/a mwp au revoir goodbye H O>
n/a mwp aussi…que/qu' as…as H R
n/a mwp ça m'est égal I'm not bothered H O>
n/a mwp ça va / ça va ? It's fine, I'm fine, it's OK/how's it going?, how are you? H O>
n/a mwp en ce moment at the moment H O>
n/a mwp en retard late H O>
n/a mwp est-ce que/est-ce qu' ? questioning device H R
n/a mwp feu d'artifice firework display H O>
n/a mwp il est + time it is/it's + time H R
n/a mwp il fait (beau) it is/it's (nice) H R
n/a mwp il faut + infinitive it is/it’s necessary + verb, must + verb H R
n/a mwp il pleut it rains | it's raining H R
n/a mwp mariage du même sexe same sex marriage H O>
n/a mwp par contre on the other hand H O>
n/a mwp s'il te plaît/s'il vous plaît please (informal)/please (formal) H O>
n/a mwp tout le monde everyone, everybody H O>
n/a mwp après avoir + pp after having + pp H R
n/a mwp en plus in addition, also H O>
n/a mwp être en train de + infinitive (to) be in the middle of + verb | being in the middle of + verb H R
n/a mwp il est (difficile) de + infinitive it is/it's (difficult) + verb H R
n/a mwp il manque… …is missing H R
n/a mwp il vaut la peine de + infinitive it is/it's worth + verb H R
n/a mwp il vaut mieux + infinitive it is/it's better + verb H R
n/a mwp il y a | il y avait | il y aura there is, ago | there are | there was | there were | there used to be | there is going to be | there will 
be
H O>
n/a mwp il y (en) a | il y (en) avait | il y (en) aura there is (of it (m, f)) | there are (of them (m, f)) | there was (of it (m, f)) | there were (of them (m, f)) | 
there used to be (of it (m, f)) | there used to be (of them (m, f)) | there was (of it (m, f)) | there were (of 
them (m, f)) | there is going to be (of it (m, f)) | there are going to be (of them (m, f)) | there will be (of it 
(m, f) | there will be (of them (m, f)) 
H R
n/a mwp ne… ni neither…nor H R
n/a mwp ne… plus not anymore, no longer H R
n/a mwp venir de + infinitive (to) have just + pp H R
n/a n (f) Fête Nationale Bastille Day, French national holiday H c
n/a n (fpl) Pyrénées the Pyrenees H c
n/a n (f) Méditerranée the Mediterranean H c
n/a n (m) Aïd Eid H c
n/a n (fpl) Alpes Alps H c
n/a n (m) baccalauréat/bac high school final exam (like A levels) H c
n/a n (f) Belgique Belgium H c
n/a n (m) Canada Canada H c
n/a n (f) France France H c

=== PDF page 100 ===
n/a n (f) La Réunion Reunion Island H c
n/a n (m) le Tour de France Tour de France H c
n/a n (f) Manche English Channel H c
n/a n (m) Maroc Morocco H c
n/a n (m) Noël Christmas H c
n/a n (m) Pâques Easter H c
n/a n (m) Paris Paris H c
n/a n (m) Québec Quebec H c
n/a n (f) Saint Valentin Valentine's Day H c
n/a n (m) Sénégal Senegal H c
n/a n (f) Suisse Switzerland H c
R = Required
O = Optional within the top 2000 words
O> = Optional outside the top 2000 words

=== PDF page 101 ===
Get help and support
V
isit our website for information, guidance, support and resources at aqa.org.uk/8652
Y
ou can talk directly to the French subject team:
E: mfl@aqa.org.uk
T
: 01423 534 381
aqa.org.uk
Copyright © 2026 AQA and its licensors. All rights reserved.
AQA retains the copyright on all its publications, including the specifications. However, schools and colleges registered with AQA are 
permitted to copy material from this specification for their own internal use.
AQA Education (AQA) is a registered charity (number 1073334) and a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales 
(company number 3644723). Our registered address is AQA, Devas Street, Manchester M15 6EX.