=== PDF page 1 ===
WJEC Eduqas GCSE in
ENGLISH LITERATURE
SPECIFICATION
Teaching from 2015 
For award from 2017
Version 4 August 2024
This Ofqual regulated qualiﬁcation is not available for
candidates in maintained schools and colleges in Wales.
ACCREDITED BY OFQUAL
GCSE

=== PDF page 2 ===
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
SUMMARY OF AMENDMENTS 
 
Version Description Page number 
2 'Making entries' section has been amended to clarify resit rules. 11 
3 The following changes of set texts have been added, for 
assessment from 2025: 
 
Component 1, Section A 
• Replaced Henry V with Twelfth Night. 
 
Component 2, Section A 
• Replaced Never Let Me Go by Kazuo Ishiguro with 
Boys Don’t Cry by Malorie Blackman. 
• Replaced A Taste of Honey by Shelagh Delaney with 
Leave Taking by Winsome Pinnock. 
 
 
 
 
2, 7, 12 
 
 
 
2, 8, 12 
4 The Component 1, Section B poetry anthology will be replaced 
with the new anthology assessed for the first time in 2027. 
2, 3, 7, 12, 13 
 
 

=== PDF page 3 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 1 
 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
  
4. Technical information       11 
11
11
  
 
 
 

=== PDF page 4 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 2 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
  
 2 hours
40% of qualification 
 
Section A (20%) Shakespeare 
Romeo and Juliet; OR Macbeth; OR Othello; OR Much Ado About Nothing; OR Twelfth 
Night; OR The Merchant of Venice. 
One extract question and one essay question based on the reading of a Shakespeare text 
from the above prescribed list. 
Learners are not permitted to take copies of the set texts into the examination. 
Section B (20%) Poetry from 1789 to the present day 
Two questions based on poems from the WJEC Eduqas Poetry Anthology, one of which 
involves comparison (for assessment until 2026 when it will be replaced by a new anthology 
for assessment from 2027) 
Learners are not permitted to take a copy of the anthology into the examination. 
 2 hours and 30 minutes
60% of qualification
 
Section A (20%) Post-1914 Prose/Drama 
Lord of the Flies (Golding); OR Anita and Me (Syal); OR Boys Don’t Cry (Blackman); OR 
The Woman in Black (Hill); OR Oranges are not the Only Fruit (Winterson); OR The Curious 
Incident of the Dog in the Night Time (play script) (Stephens); OR Leave Taking (Pinnock); 
OR An Inspector Calls (Priestley); OR The History Boys (Bennett); OR Blood Brothers 
(Russell)  
One source-based question on a post 1914 prose/drama text from the above prescribed list. 
Learners are not permitted to take copies of the set texts into the examination. 
Section B (20%) 19th Century Prose 
A Christmas Carol (Dickens); OR Silas Marner (Eliot); OR Pride and Prejudice (Austen); OR 
War of the Worlds (Wells); OR Jane Eyre (Brontë); OR The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and 
Mr Hyde (Stevenson) 
One source-based question on a 19th century prose text from the above prescribed list. 
Learners are not permitted to take copies of the set texts into the examination. 
Section C (20%) Unseen Poetry from the 20th/21st Century 
Two questions on unseen poems, one of which involves comparison. 
 
This linear qualification will be available in the summer series each year.  It will be awarded 
for the first time in summer 2017. 
Qualification Accreditation Number: 601/5246/1 

=== PDF page 5 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 3 
 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
The WJEC Eduqas GCSE in English literature encourages learners to develop 
knowledge and skills in reading, writing and critical thinking.  It provides learners with 
opportunities to read widely for pleasure across a range of high quality texts in the 
genres of prose, poetry and drama and to develop an understanding of how literature 
is both rich and influential.  It enables learners to make connections across their 
reading and develop a clear understanding of literary works and also prepares them 
for the study of literature at a higher level.  
 
This GCSE in English literature enables students to: 
 
• read a wide range of classic literature fluently and with good understanding, and 
make connections across their reading  
• read in depth, critically and evaluatively, so that they are able to discuss and 
explain their understanding and ideas  
• develop the habit of reading widely and often 
• appreciate the depth and power of the English literary heritage 
• write accurately, effectively and analytically about their reading, using Standard 
English  
• acquire and use a wide vocabulary, including the grammatical terminology and 
other literary and linguistic terms they need to criticise and analyse what they 
read. 
 
It builds on the tradition and reputation WJEC has established for clear, reliable 
assessment supported by straightforward, accessible guidance and administration. 
 
The specification has been developed in consultation with practising teachers, senior 
examiners, and subject and assessment experts. 
 
In developing this specification, WJEC has been mindful to include the following 
features: 
 
• flexibility in the choice of texts to be studied 
• a WJEC produced poetry anthology – for assessment until 2026 when it will be 
replaced by a new anthology for assessment from 2027 
• straightforward wording of questions 
• opportunities for breadth of study  
• analysis of unseen poetry 
• opportunities for close analysis of texts 
• opportunities for extended essay responses. 
 
In designing this specification, careful consideration of length of examination time and 
the number of question papers has resulted in a balance between robust assessment 
and manageability.  Varied question types and clear rubric aim to make this untiered 
assessment accessible to students of different abilities. 
   

=== PDF page 6 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 4 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
There are no previous learning requirements for this specification. Any requirements 
set for entry to a course based on this specification are at the school/college’s 
discretion. 
 
This specification builds on subject content which is typically taught at key stage 3 
and provides a suitable foundation for the study of English literature at either AS or 
A level.  In addition, the specification provides a coherent, satisfying and worthwhile 
course of study for learners who do not progress to further study in this subject. 
 
 
This specification may be followed by any learner, irrespective of gender, ethnic, 
religious or cultural background.  It has been designed to avoid, where possible, 
features that could, without justification, make it more difficult for a learner to achieve 
because they have a particular protected characteristic.  
 
The protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010 are age, disability, gender 
reassignment, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex and sexual 
orientation. 
 
The specification has been discussed with groups who represent the interests of a 
diverse range of learners, and the specification will be kept under review.  
 
Reasonable adjustments are made for certain learners in order to enable them to 
access the assessments (e.g. application for extra time in a GCSE subject where 
extended writing is required).  Information on reasonable adjustments is found in the 
following document from the Joint Council for Qualifications (JCQ):  Access 
Arrangements, Reasonable Adjustments and Special Consideration:  General and 
Vocational Qualifications.  
 
This document is available on the JCQ website (www.jcq.org.uk).  As a consequence 
of provision for reasonable adjustments, very few learners will have a complete 
barrier to any part of the assessment.  
 
  

=== PDF page 7 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 5 
 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
The qualification is made up of two externally-assessed components:  Component 1 and 
Component 2. Both components allow learners to show their depth and breadth of 
knowledge through varied assessments.  
 
This specification contains the full range of content for GCSE English literature as set 
out by the Department for Education.  Centres may, however, use any flexibility to 
increase depth, breadth or context within the specified topics or to consolidate 
teaching of the subject content.  This specification has been designed on the basis 
that learners’ reading should be of whole texts.  
 
Scope of study 
Reading comprehension and reading critically  
• literal and inferential comprehension: understanding a word, phrase or sentence 
in context; exploring aspects of plot, characterisation, events and settings; 
distinguishing between what is stated explicitly and what is implied; explaining 
motivation, sequence of events, and the relationship between actions or events  
• critical reading: identifying the theme and distinguishing between themes; 
supporting a point of view by referring to evidence in the text; recognising the 
possibility of and evaluating different responses to a text; using understanding of 
writers’ social, historical and cultural contexts to inform evaluation; making an 
informed personal response that derives from analysis and evaluation of the text  
• evaluation of a writer’s choice of vocabulary, grammatical and structural features: 
analysing and evaluating how language (including figurative language), structure, 
form and presentation contribute to quality and impact; using linguistic and literary 
terminology for such evaluation (such as, but not restricted to, phrase, metaphor, 
meter, irony and persona, synecdoche, pathetic fallacy)  
• comparing texts: comparing and contrasting texts studied, referring where 
relevant to theme, characterisation, context (where known), style and literary 
quality; comparing two texts critically with respect to the above.
 
 
 
Writing  
 
• producing clear and coherent text: writing effectively about literature for a range 
of purposes such as: to describe, explain, summarise, argue, analyse and 
evaluate; discussing and maintaining a point of view; selecting and emphasising 
key points; using relevant quotation and using detailed textual references  
• accurate Standard English: accurate spelling, punctuation and grammar.  
 
In addition, learners are required to study the following content: 
 
• at least one play by Shakespeare  
• at least one 19th century novel  
• a selection
 
of poetry since 1789, including representative Romantic poetry  
• fiction or drama from the British Isles from 1914 onwards. 
 
  

=== PDF page 8 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 6 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
The examination must also include questions on texts that learners have not read 
previously (‘unseen’ texts). 
 
Regulatory requirements set out by Ofqual state all GCSE English literature 
specifications will: 
 
• be assessed by examination  
• be untiered 
• be fully linear with assessments available in the summer series 
• allocate five per cent of the total marks to accurate spelling, punctuation and 
grammar. 
 
These regulatory requirements are covered by this specification. 
 
 
  

=== PDF page 9 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 7 
 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
 2 hours  
40% of qualification 
 
This component assesses learners on Shakespeare and poetry from 1789 to the present 
day. In Section A, learners will need to show their knowledge of dramatic techniques and 
demonstrate their understanding of plot, characterisation, events and key themes; they 
will need to analyse language, structure and form closely in order to engage critically with 
the text.  In Section B, learners have the opportunity to show their understanding of the 
poems and the relationships between them and the contexts in which they were written.  
 
 
  Section A (20%) Shakespeare  (40 marks) 
 
Romeo and Juliet; OR Macbeth; OR Othello; OR Much Ado About Nothing; OR Twelfth 
Night; OR The Merchant of Venice 
 
Learners study one text from the above prescribed list. 
 
This assessment will test, through one extract-based question and one essay question 
on the text as a whole, knowledge and understanding of a Shakespeare text.  Learners 
will be expected to comment on Shakespeare’s use of language, structure and form and 
show an understanding of key themes, characters and ideas within the text.  This section 
will also test learners' spelling, punctuation and grammar. 
 
Section A assesses AO1, AO2 and AO4. 
 
Learners are not permitted to take copies of the set texts into the examination. 
 
    
Section B (20%) Poetry 1789 to the present day for assessment until 2026 when it will 
be replaced by a new anthology for assessment from 2027 (40 marks) 
 
  
This assessment will test knowledge and understanding of poetry from 1789 to the 
present day. Learners will be assessed on two poems from the WJEC Eduqas Poetry 
Anthology.  In the first question, learners will be asked to write about a specified poem.  
In the second question, learners will be asked to write about a second poem chosen from 
the WJEC Eduqas Poetry Anthology, and compare it to the first.  
  
Learners will be expected to consider the context of each poem, its content and key 
ideas, and the poets’ use of language, structure and form. 
 
Learners must study all of the poems in the WJEC Eduqas Poetry Anthology in 
preparation for this assessment. The anthology covers a range of poetry and is designed 
to introduce learners to the rich heritage of poetry across centuries as well as illustrating 
how poets explore similar themes in different ways.  
 
Section B assesses AO1, AO2 and AO3. 
 
Learners are not permitted to take a copy of the anthology into the examination. 
 


=== PDF page 10 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 8 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 2 hours and 30 minutes 
60% of qualification 
 
This component assesses learners on either prose or drama from 1914 onwards, a 
19th century prose text and unseen poetry.  In Section A and Section B, learners will 
need to demonstrate their knowledge and understanding of aspects of plot, 
characterisation, events and key themes; they will need to evaluate and analyse how 
language, structure and form are used by the writer to create meanings and effects.  In 
Section B, learners will also need to show their understanding of the varied contexts of 
their chosen text.  Section C consolidates many of the skills learners have developed as 
it requires learners to demonstrate these skills in a comparison of two unseen poems. 
    
  Section A (20%) Post 1914 Prose/Drama  (40 marks) 
 
Lord of the Flies (Golding); OR Anita and Me (Syal); OR Boys Don’t Cry (Blackman); 
OR The Woman in Black (Hill); OR Oranges are not the Only Fruit (Winterson); OR The 
Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night Time (play script) (Stephens); OR Leave 
Taking (Pinnock); OR An Inspector Calls (Priestley); OR The History Boys (Bennett); 
OR Blood Brothers (Russell)  
 
Learners study one prose or drama text from the above prescribed list. 
 
This assessment will test, through a source based response, knowledge and 
understanding of the post-1914 prose/drama text. Learners will be expected to comment 
on the writer's use of language, structure and form and show an understanding of key 
themes, characters and ideas within the text. This assessment will also test learner's 
spelling, punctuation and grammar. 
 
Section A assesses AO1, AO2 and AO4. 
 
Learners are not permitted to take copies of the set texts into the examination. 
   
  Section B (20%) 19th Century Prose  (40 marks) 
 
A Christmas Carol (Dickens); OR Silas Marner (Eliot); OR War of the Worlds (Wells); 
OR Pride and Prejudice (Austen); OR Jane Eyre (Brontë); OR The Strange Case of 
Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde (Stevenson)  
 
Learners study one text from the above prescribed list. 
 
This assessment will test, through a source based response, knowledge and 
understanding of the 19th century prose novel. Learners will be expected to comment 
upon the context of the prose text, the language, structure and form of the text and key 
themes, characters and ideas within the text.   
 
Section B assesses AO1, AO2 and AO3. 
 
Learners are not permitted to take copies of the set texts into the examination. 
  

=== PDF page 11 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 9 
 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
   
  Section C (20%) Unseen Poetry  (40 marks) 
 
   
This assessment will ask learners to consider two unseen poems from the 20th and/or 
21st centuries.  In the first question, learners will be asked to write about a previously 
unseen poem.  In the second question, learners will be asked to write about a second 
previously unseen poem, and compare it to the first. 
 
Learners will be expected to consider the content and key ideas of each poem, and the 
poets’ use of language, structure and form. 
 
Section C assesses AO1 and AO2. 
 
 
  

=== PDF page 12 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 10 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
Below are the assessment objectives for this specification.  Learners must 
demonstrate their ability to: 
 
AO1  
Read, understand and respond to texts.  Students should be able to: 
 
• maintain a critical style and develop an informed personal response 
 
• use textual references, including quotations, to support and illustrate 
interpretations. 
 
AO2  
Analyse the language, form and structure used by a writer to create meanings and 
effects, using relevant subject terminology where appropriate. 
 
AO3  
Show understanding of the relationships between texts and the contexts in which 
they were written. 
 
AO4  
Use a range of vocabulary and sentence structures for clarity, purpose and effect, 
with accurate spelling and punctuation. 
 
In the specification as a whole, 20-25% of the marks will require candidates to show 
the abilities described in AO1, AO2 and AO3 through tasks which require them to 
make comparisons across texts. 
 
 
The table below shows the weighting of each assessment objective for each 
component and for the qualification as a whole. 
 
 
 AO1% AO2% AO3% AO4% Total% 
Component 1 15 15 7.5 2.5 40 
Component 2 25 25 7.5 2.5 60 
Overall weighting 40 40 15 5 100 
 
  

=== PDF page 13 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 11 
 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
This is a linear qualification in which all assessments must be taken at the end of the 
course.  Assessment opportunities will be available in the summer series each year, 
until the end of the life of this specification.  Summer 2017 will be the first 
assessment opportunity. 
 
A qualification may be taken more than once. Candidates must resit all examination 
components in the same series. 
 
The entry code appears below. 
 
WJEC Eduqas GCSE English Literature:  C720QS 
 
The current edition of our Entry Procedures and Coding Information gives up-to-date 
entry procedures. 
 
 
 
GCSE qualifications are reported on a nine point scale from 1 to 9, where 9 is the 
highest grade.  Results not attaining the minimum standard for the award will be 
reported as U (unclassified). 
 
 
 
 

=== PDF page 14 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 12 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
WJEC Eduqas GCSE English literature prescribed texts list  
Prescribed texts will be reviewed every three years to ensure continuing suitability for 
teaching and assessment. 
 
Component 1: Section A (Shakespeare) 
Romeo and Juliet  
Macbeth  
Othello 
Much Ado About Nothing  
Twelfth Night 
The Merchant of Venice 
 
Component 1: Section B 
WJEC Eduqas Poetry Anthology (see appendix B for list of poems) - for assessment until 
2026 when it will be replaced by a new anthology for assessment from 2027 
 
Component 2: Section A (Post 1914 Prose/Drama) 
Lord of the Flies (Golding) 
*Anita and Me (Syal) 
*Boys Don’t Cry (Blackman) 
The Woman in Black (Hill) 
*Oranges are not the Only Fruit (Winterson) 
The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night Time (play script) (Simon Stephens) 
(Bloomsbury edition ISBN: 978-1-4081-8521-6) 
*Leave Taking (Pinnock) 
An Inspector Calls (Priestley) 
*The History Boys (Bennett)  
Blood Brothers (Russell) (not Stanley Thorne edition) 
 
Component 2: Section B (19th Century Prose) 
A Christmas Carol (Dickens) 
Silas Marner (Eliot) 
War of the Worlds (Wells) 
Pride and Prejudice (Austen) 
Jane Eyre (Brontë)  
The Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde (Stevenson) 
 
* Centres are advised that these texts deal with adult themes and / or contain language of an 
adult nature. 
 
Component 2: Section C (Unseen Poetry) 
 
There are no prescribed texts for Section C. However, poems suitable for study to prepare 
learners for this section could include work by Fleur Adcock, John Agard, Moniza Alvi, 
Maya Angelou, Simon Armitage, James Berry, Eavan Boland, Wendy Cope, Tony Curtis, 
Carol Ann Duffy, Rita Dove, Jen Hadfield, Tony Harrison, Ted Hughes, Jackie Kay, 
Philip Larkin, Liz Lochhead, Roger McGough, Robert Minhinnick, Andrew Motion, 
Grace Nichols, Sean O’Brien, Seamus Heaney, Adrienne Rich, Jo Shapcott, Owen Sheers, 
Derek Walcott, William Carlos Williams and Benjamin Zephaniah.  Work by other poets from 
the 20th and 21st centuries may also be chosen. 

=== PDF page 15 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LITERATURE 13 
 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
WJEC Eduqas GCSE English Literature Poetry Anthology for assessment until 
2026 when it will be replaced by a new anthology for assessment from 2027 
 
The Manhunt Simon Armitage 
Sonnet 43 Elizabeth Barrett Browning 
London William Blake 
The Soldier Rupert Brooke  
She Walks in Beauty Lord Byron 
Living Space Imtiaz Dharker 
As Imperceptibly as Grief Emily Dickinson 
Cozy Apologia Rita Dove 
Valentine Carol Ann Duffy 
A Wife in London Thomas Hardy 
Death of a Naturalist Seamus Heaney 
Hawk Roosting Ted Hughes 
To Autumn John Keats 
Afternoons Philip Larkin 
Dulce et Decorum Est Wilfred Owen  
Ozymandias Percy Bysshe Shelley  
Mametz Wood Owen Sheers 
Excerpt from The Prelude William Wordsworth  
 
 
The WJEC Eduqas GCSE English Literature Poetry Anthology is supplied for teaching 
purposes.  Copies will be distributed free of charge for the use of learners each year. 
 
 
WJEC Eduqas GCSE English Literature Poetry Anthology for assessment from 
2027 
 
 
The Schoolboy William Blake 
I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud William Wordsworth 
Sonnet 29 E Barrett Browning 
Cousin Kate Christina Rossetti 
Drummer Hodge Thomas Hardy 
I Shall Return Claude McKay 
Disabled Wilfred Owen 
Decomposition Zulfikar Ghose 
Catrin Gillian Clarke 
Blackberry Picking Seamus Heaney 
War Photographer Carol Ann Duffy 
Dusting the Phone Jackie Kay 
Kamikaze Beatrice Garland 
Remains Simon Armitage 
Origin Story Eve L Ewing 
 
 
Specification for GCSE English Literature for teaching from 2015/ HT 
12.08.2024 