=== PDF page 1 ===
GCSE
PHYSICS
(8463)
Specification
For teaching from September 2016 onwards
For exams in 2018 onwards
Version 1.1  30 September 2019
Copyright © 2016 AQA and its licensors. All rights reserved.
AQA retains the copyright on all its publications, including the specifications. However, schools and colleges registered with AQA are permitted to copy 
material from this specification for their own internal use.
AQA Education (AQA) is a registered charity (number 1073334) and a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales (company number 
3644723). Our registered address is AQA, Devas Street, Manchester M15 6EX.
aqa.org.uk
G00570
Get help and support
Visit our website for information, guidance, support and resources at aqa.org.uk/8463
You can talk directly to the science subject team
E: gcsescience@aqa.org.uk
T: 01483 477 756 


=== PDF page 2 ===


=== PDF page 3 ===
Contents
1 Introduction 5
1.1 Why choose AQA for GCSE Physics 5
1.2 Support and resources to help you teach 6
2 Specification at a glance 9
2.1 Subject content 9
2.2 Assessments 9
3 Working scientifically 11
4 Subject content 17
4.1 Energy 17
4.2 Electricity 23
4.3 Particle model of matter 32
4.4 Atomic structure 36
4.5 Forces 43
4.6 Waves 59
4.7 Magnetism and electromagnetism 67
4.8 Space physics (physics only) 72
4.9 Key ideas 76
5 Scheme of assessment 77
5.1 Aims and learning outcomes 77
5.2 Assessment objectives 78
5.3 Assessment weightings 78
6 General administration 81
6.1 Entries and codes 81
6.2 Overlaps with other qualifications 81
6.3 Awarding grades and reporting results 81
6.4 Resits and shelf life 82
6.5 Previous learning and prerequisites 82
6.6 Access to assessment: diversity and inclusion 82
6.7 Working with AQA for the first time 83
6.8 Private candidates 83
7 Mathematical requirements 85
8 Practical assessment 87
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   3

=== PDF page 4 ===
8.1 Use of apparatus and techniques 87
8.2 Required practical activities 88
9 Appendix A: Physics equations 101
Are you using the latest version of this specification?
• You will always find the most up-to-date version of this specification on our website at
aqa.org.uk/8463
• We will write to you if there are significant changes to the specification.
4   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 5 ===
1 Introduction
1.1 Why choose AQA for GCSE Physics
Our philosophy: science for all
We believe that science has something to offer every student. That's why we have a suite of
science qualifications for Key Stage 4 – to suit students of all abilities and all aspirations.
You'll see that our GCSE Physics, along with Chemistry and Biology, is a clear straightforward
specification, with clear straightforward exams, so all your students can realise their potential.
Our specification has been developed with teachers
We’ve involved over a thousand teachers in developing our specification, exams and resources.
So you can be confident that our GCSE Physics is relevant and interesting to teach and to learn.
We’ve ensured that:
• the subject content is presented clearly, in a logical teaching order. We’ve also given
teaching guidance and signposted opportunities for skills development throughout the
specification.
• the subject content and required practicals in our GCSE Combined Science: Trilogy are also
in our GCSE Biology, Chemistry and Physics. So you have the flexibility to co-teach or to
move your students between courses.
• all our science qualifications provide opportunities for progression. Our GCSE Physics
includes progression in the subject content and consistency in the exam questions, so that
your students have the best preparation for A-level.
Our practicals have been trialled by teachers
There’s no better way to learn about science than through purposeful practical activities as part of
day to day teaching and learning. Our eight required practicals:
• are clearly laid out in the specification, so you know exactly what’s required
• are deliberately open, so you can teach in the way that suits you and your students
• have already been trialled in schools.
You’ll find even more support and guidance in our practical handbook, which includes
recommendations and advice from teachers in the trial.
Straightforward exams, so students can give straightforward answers
We’ve improved our question papers. You’ll find that our exams:
• use more straightforward language and fewer words so they’re easier to understand
• have fewer contexts so students don’t get confused
• have questions that increase in difficulty so students feel confident
• have been written with our GCSE Maths and A-level science teams, so students have
consistency between content and questions.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   5

=== PDF page 6 ===
Over 3,000 students have sat our specimen question papers and they agree that they’re clearer
and more straightforward than ever.
We don’t profit from education – you do
We are an educational charity focused on the needs of teachers and students. This means that we
spend our income on improving the quality of our specifications, exams, resources and support.
You can find out all about our Science qualifications at aqa.org.uk/science
1.2 Support and resources to help you teach
We’ve worked with experienced teachers to provide you with a range of resources that will help
you confidently plan, teach and prepare for exams.
Teaching resources
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 to see all our teaching resources. They include:
• additional practice papers to help students prepare for exams
• schemes of work, written by experienced teachers
• a practical handbook, including recommendations and advice from teachers who’ve trialled
our practicals
• AQA-approved textbooks reviewed by experienced senior examiners
• subject expertise courses for all teachers, from newly qualified teachers who are just getting
started to experienced teachers looking for fresh inspiration.
Preparing for exams
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for everything you need to prepare for our exams, including:
• past papers, mark schemes and examiners’ reports
• sample papers and mark schemes for new courses
• Exampro: a searchable bank of past AQA exam questions
• example student answers with examiner commentaries.
Analyse your students' results with Enhanced Results Analysis (ERA)
Find out which questions were the most challenging, how the results compare to previous years
and where your students need to improve. ERA, our free online results analysis tool, will help you
see where to focus your teaching. Register at aqa.org.uk/era
For information about results, including maintaining standards over time, grade boundaries and our
post-results services, visit aqa.org.uk/results
Keep your skills up-to-date with professional development
Wherever you are in your career, there’s always something new to learn. As well as subject-
specific training, we offer a range of courses to help boost your skills.
• Improve your teaching skills in areas including differentiation, teaching literacy and meeting
Ofsted requirements.
• Prepare for a new role with our leadership and management courses.
6   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 7 ===
You can attend a course at venues around the country, in your school or online – whatever suits
your needs and availability. Find out more at coursesandevents.aqa.org.uk
Help and support available
Visit our website for information, guidance, support and resources at aqa.org.uk/8463
If you'd like us to share news and information about this qualification, sign up for emails and
updates at aqa.org.uk/keepinformedscience
Alternatively, you can call or email our subject team direct.
E: gcsescience@aqa.org.uk
T: 01483 477 756
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   7

=== PDF page 8 ===
8   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 9 ===
2 Specification at a glance
This qualification is linear. Linear means that students will sit all their exams at the end of the
course.
2.1 Subject content
1. Energy (page 17)
2. Electricity (page 23)
3. Particle model of matter (page 32)
4. Atomic structure (page 36)
5. Forces (page 43)
6. Waves (page 59)
7. Magnetism and electromagnetism (page 67)
8. Space physics (physics only) (page 72)
2.2 Assessments
Paper 1:
What's assessed
Topics 1-4: Energy; Electricity; Particle model of matter; and Atomic structure.
How it's assessed
• Written exam: 1 hour 45 minutes
• Foundation and Higher Tier
• 100 marks
• 50% of GCSE
Questions
• Multiple choice, structured, closed short answer and open response.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   9

=== PDF page 10 ===
Paper 2:
What's assessed
Topics 5-8: Forces; Waves; Magnetism and electromagnetism; and Space physics.
Questions in paper 2 may draw on an understanding of energy changes and transfers due to
heating, mechanical and electrical work and the concept of energy conservation from Energy
(page 17) and Electricity (page 23).
How it's assessed
• Written exam: 1 hour 45 minutes
• Foundation and Higher Tier
• 100 marks
• 50% of GCSE
Questions
• Multiple choice, structured, closed short answer and open response.
10   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 11 ===
3 Working scientifically
Science is a set of ideas about the material world. We have included all the parts of what good
science is at GCSE level: whether it be investigating, observing, experimenting or testing out ideas
and thinking about them. The way scientific ideas flow through the specification will support you in
building a deep understanding of science with your students. We know this will involve talking
about, reading and writing about science plus the actual doing, as well as representing science in
its many forms both mathematically and visually through models.
This specification encourages the development of knowledge and understanding in science
through opportunities for working scientifically. Working scientifically is the sum of all the activities
that scientists do. We feel it is so important that we have woven it throughout our specification and
written papers.
Our schemes of work will take this further for you and signpost a range of ways to navigate through
this qualification so your students are engaged and enthused. These free resources support the
use of mathematics as a tool for thinking through the use of mathematical language in
explanations, applications and evaluations.
The tables below show examples of the ways working scientifically could be assessed.
1 Development of scientific thinking
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 1.1 Understand how scientific methods and
theories develop over time.
Give examples to show how scientific methods
and theories have changed over time.
Explain, with an example, why new data from
experiments or observations led to changes in
models or theories.
Decide whether or not given data supports a
particular theory.
WS 1.2 Use a variety of models such as
representational, spatial, descriptive,
computational and mathematical to solve
problems, make predictions and to develop
scientific explanations and understanding of
familiar and unfamiliar facts.
Recognise/draw/interpret diagrams.
Translate from data to a representation with a
model.
Use models in explanations, or match features
of a model to the data from experiments or
observations that the model describes or
explains.
Make predictions or calculate quantities based
on the model or show its limitations.
Give examples of ways in which a model can
be tested by observation or experiment.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   11

=== PDF page 12 ===
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 1.3 Appreciate the power and limitations of
science and consider any ethical issues which
may arise.
Explain why data is needed to answer scientific
questions, and why it may be uncertain,
incomplete or not available.
Outline a simple ethical argument about the
rights and wrongs of a new technology.
WS 1.4 Explain everyday and technological
applications of science; evaluate associated
personal, social, economic and environmental
implications; and make decisions based on the
evaluation of evidence and arguments.
Describe and explain specified examples of the
technological applications of science.
Describe and evaluate, with the help of data,
methods that can be used to tackle problems
caused by human impacts on the environment.
WS 1.5 Evaluate risks both in practical science
and the wider societal context, including
perception of risk in relation to data and
consequences.
Give examples to show that there are hazards
associated with science-based technologies
which have to be considered alongside the
benefits.
Suggest reasons why the perception of risk is
often very different from the measured risk (eg
voluntary vs imposed risks, familiar vs
unfamiliar risks, visible vs invisible hazards).
WS 1.6 Recognise the importance of peer
review of results and of communicating results
to a range of audiences.
Explain that the process of peer review helps to
detect false claims and to establish a
consensus about which claims should be
regarded as valid.
Explain that reports of scientific developments
in the popular media are not subject to peer
review and may be oversimplified, inaccurate or
biased.
2 Experimental skills and strategies
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 2.1 Use scientific theories and explanations
to develop hypotheses.
Suggest a hypothesis to explain given
observations or data.
12   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 13 ===
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 2.2 Plan experiments or devise procedures
to make observations, produce or characterise
a substance, test hypotheses, check data or
explore phenomena.
Describe a practical procedure for a specified
purpose.
Explain why a given practical procedure is well
designed for its specified purpose.
Explain the need to manipulate and control
variables.
Identify in a given context:
• the independent variable as the one that
is changed or selected by the investigator
• the dependent variable that is measured
for each change in the independent
variable
• control variables and be able to explain
why they are kept the same.
Apply understanding of apparatus and
techniques to suggest a procedure for a
specified purpose.
WS 2.3 Apply a knowledge of a range of
techniques, instruments, apparatus, and
materials to select those appropriate to the
experiment.
Describe/suggest/select the technique,
instrument, apparatus or material that should be
used for a particular purpose, and explain why.
WS 2.4 Carry out experiments appropriately
having due regard for the correct manipulation
of apparatus, the accuracy of measurements
and health and safety considerations.
Identify the main hazards in specified practical
contexts.
Suggest methods of reducing the risk of harm in
practical contexts.
WS 2.5 Recognise when to apply a knowledge
of sampling techniques to ensure any samples
collected are representative.
Suggest and describe an appropriate sampling
technique in a given context.
WS 2.6 Make and record observations and
measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
Read measurements off a scale in a practical
context and record appropriately.
WS 2.7 Evaluate methods and suggest possible
improvements and further investigations.
Assess whether sufficient, precise
measurements have been taken in an
experiment.
Evaluate methods with a view to determining
whether or not they are valid.
3 Analysis and evaluation
Apply the cycle of collecting, presenting and analysing data, including:
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   13

=== PDF page 14 ===
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 3.1 Presenting observations and other data
using appropriate methods.
Construct and interpret frequency tables and
diagrams, bar charts and histograms.
Plot two variables from experimental or other
data.
WS 3.2 Translating data from one form to
another.
Translate data between graphical and numeric
form.
WS 3.3 Carrying out and represent
mathematical and statistical analysis.
For example:
• use an appropriate number of significant
figures
• find the arithmetic mean and range of a
set of data
• construct and interpret frequency tables
and diagrams, bar charts and histograms
• make order of magnitude calculations
• change the subject of an equation
• substitute numerical values into algebraic
equations using appropriate units for
physical quantities
• determine the slope and intercept of a
linear graph
• draw and use the slope of a tangent to a
curve as a measure of rate of change
• understand the physical significance of
area between a curve and the x-axis and
measure it by counting squares as
appropriate.
WS 3.4 Representing distributions of results
and make estimations of uncertainty.
Apply the idea that whenever a measurement is
made, there is always some uncertainty about
the result obtained.
Use the range of a set of measurements about
the mean as a measure of uncertainty.
WS 3.5 Interpreting observations and other
data (presented in verbal, diagrammatic,
graphical, symbolic or numerical form),
including identifying patterns and trends,
making inferences and drawing conclusions.
Use data to make predictions.
Recognise or describe patterns and trends in
data presented in a variety of tabular, graphical
and other forms.
Draw conclusions from given observations.
WS 3.6 Presenting reasoned explanations
including relating data to hypotheses.
Comment on the extent to which data is
consistent with a given hypothesis.
Identify which of two or more hypotheses
provides a better explanation of data in a given
context.
14   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 15 ===
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 3.7 Being objective, evaluating data in
terms of accuracy, precision, repeatability and
reproducibility and identifying potential sources
of random and systematic error.
Apply the following ideas to evaluate data to
suggest improvements to procedures and
techniques.
• An accurate measurement is one that is
close to the true value.
• Measurements are precise if they cluster
closely.
• Measurements are repeatable when
repetition, under the same conditions by
the same investigator, gives similar
results.
• Measurements are reproducible if similar
results are obtained by different
investigators with different equipment.
• Measurements are affected by random
error due to results varying in
unpredictable ways; these errors can be
reduced by making more measurements
and reporting a mean value.
• Systematic error is due to measurement
results differing from the true value by a
consistent amount each time.
• Any anomalous values should be
examined to try to identify the cause and,
if a product of a poor measurement,
ignored.
WS 3.8 Communicating the scientific rationale
for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through paper-based and
electronic reports and presentations using
verbal, diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and
symbolic forms.
Present coherent and logically structured
responses, using the ideas in 2 Experimental
skills and strategies and 3 Analysis and
evaluation, applied to the required practicals,
and other practical investigations given
appropriate information.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   15

=== PDF page 16 ===
4 Scientific vocabulary, quantities, units, symbols and
nomenclature
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 4.1 Use scientific vocabulary, terminology
and definitions.
WS 4.2 Recognise the importance of scientific
quantities and understand how they are
determined.
WS 4.3 Use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm;
kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature
unless inappropriate.
WS 4.4 Use prefixes and powers of ten for
orders of magnitude (eg tera, giga, mega, kilo,
centi, milli, micro and nano).
WS 4.5 Interconvert units.
WS 4.6 Use an appropriate number of
significant figures in calculation.
The knowledge and skills in this section apply
across the specification, including the required
practicals.
16   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 17 ===
4 Subject content
This specification is presented in a two column format. The left hand column contains the
specification content that all students must cover and that can be assessed in the written papers.
The right hand column exemplifies some key opportunities for the following skills to be developed:
WS refers to Working scientifically (page 11), MS refers to Mathematical requirements (page 85),
and AT refers to Use of apparatus and techniques (page 87). These are not the only
opportunities. Teachers are encouraged to introduce all of these skills where appropriate
throughout the course.
Each topic begins with an overview. The overview puts the topic into a broader context and is
intended to encourage an overarching approach to both the teaching and learning of each of the
topic areas. It is not directly assessed. Any assessable content in this overview is replicated in the
left hand column.
Most of the content is co-teachable with GCSE Combined Science: Trilogy. Content that is only
applicable to physics is indicated by (physics only) either next to the topic heading where it applies
to the whole topic or immediately preceding each paragraph or bullet point as applicable. Content
that is only applicable to Higher Tier is indicated by (HT only) either next to the topic heading
where it applies to the whole topic or immediately preceding each paragraph or bullet point as
applicable.
It is good practice to teach and develop all of the mathematical skills throughout the course. Some
mathematical skills will only be assessed in certain subject areas. These are detailed in 
Mathematical requirements (page 85).
Science is a practical subject. Details of the assessment of required practicals can be found in 
Practical assessment (page 87).
Working scientifically (page 11) and Use of apparatus and techniques (page 87) skills will be
assessed across all papers.
Questions in paper 2 may draw on an understanding of energy changes and transfers due to
heating, mechanical and electrical work and the concept of energy conservation from sections 
Energy (page 17) and Electricity (page 23).
4.1 Energy
The concept of energy emerged in the 19th century. The idea was used to explain the work output
of steam engines and then generalised to understand other heat engines. It also became a key tool
for understanding chemical reactions and biological systems.
Limits to the use of fossil fuels and global warming are critical problems for this century. Physicists
and engineers are working hard to identify ways to reduce our energy usage.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   17

=== PDF page 18 ===
4.1.1 Energy changes in a system, and the ways energy is stored
before and after such changes
4.1.1.1 Energy stores and systems
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A system is an object or group of objects.
There are changes in the way energy is stored when a system
changes.
Students should be able to describe all the changes involved in the
way energy is stored when a system changes, for common
situations. For example:
• an object projected upwards
• a moving object hitting an obstacle
• an object accelerated by a constant force
• a vehicle slowing down
• bringing water to a boil in an electric kettle.
Throughout this section on Energy students should be able to
calculate the changes in energy involved when a system is changed
by:
• heating
• work done by forces
• work done when a current flows
The link between work done
(energy transfer) and
current flow in a circuit is
covered in Energy transfers
(page 29).
WS 4.5
• use calculations to show on a common scale how the overall
energy in a system is redistributed when the system is
changed.
WS 1.2, 4.3, 4.5, 4.6
MS 1a, c, 3b, c
4.1.1.2 Changes in energy
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to calculate the amount of energy
associated with a moving object, a stretched spring and an object
raised above ground level.
WS 1.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.6
MS 1a, c, 3b, c
18   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 19 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The kinetic energy of a moving object can be calculated using the
equation:
kinetic energ y = 0.5 × mass × s peed 2
Ek  =   1
2 m v2
kinetic energy, Ek, in joules, J
mass, m, in kilograms, kg
speed, v, in metres per second, m/s
The amount of elastic potential energy stored in a stretched spring
can be calculated using the equation:
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
elastic potential energ y = 0.5 × s pring constant × extension 2
Ee   =   1
2 k e2
(assuming the limit of proportionality has not been exceeded)
elastic potential energy, Ee, in joules, J
spring constant, k, in newtons per metre, N/m
extension, e, in metres, m
The amount of gravitational potential energy gained by an object
raised above ground level can be calculated using the equation:
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet.
g . p . e .  = mass × gravitational f ield strength × height
Ep  = m g h
gravitational potential energy, Ep, in joules, J
mass, m, in kilograms, kg
gravitational field strength, g, in newtons per kilogram, N/kg (In any
calculation the value of the gravitational field strength (g) will be
given).
height, h, in metres, m
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
AT 1
Investigate the transfer of
energy from a gravitational
potential energy store to a
kinetic energy store.
4.1.1.3 Energy changes in systems
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The amount of energy stored in or released from a system as its
temperature changes can be calculated using the equation:
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   19

=== PDF page 20 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
change in thermal energ y = mass × s peci f ic heat ca pacit y 
× tem perature change
∆ E  = m c  ∆ θ
change in thermal energy, ∆E, in joules, J
mass, m, in kilograms, kg
specific heat capacity, c, in joules per kilogram per degree Celsius,
J/kg °C
temperature change, ∆θ, in degrees Celsius, °C
The specific heat capacity of a substance is the amount of energy
required to raise the temperature of one kilogram of the substance
by one degree Celsius.
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet.
This equation and specific
heat capacity are also
included in Temperature
changes in a system and
specific heat capacity (page
34).
Required practical activity 1: investigation to determine the specific heat capacity of one or more
materials. The investigation will involve linking the decrease of one energy store (or work done) to
the increase in temperature and subsequent increase in thermal energy stored.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1 and 5.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 89).
20   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 21 ===
4.1.1.4 Power
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Power is defined as the rate at which energy is transferred or the
rate at which work is done.
power =  energ y trans f erred
time
P  =   E
t
power =  work done
time
P  =   W
t
power, P, in watts, W
energy transferred, E, in joules, J
time, t, in seconds, s
work done, W, in joules, J
An energy transfer of 1 joule per second is equal to a power of 1
watt.
Students should be able to give examples that illustrate the
definition of power eg comparing two electric motors that both lift
the same weight through the same height but one does it faster
than the other.
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply both
equations.
4.1.2 Conservation and dissipation of energy
4.1.2.1 Energy transfers in a system
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Energy can be transferred usefully, stored or dissipated, but cannot
be created or destroyed.
Students should be able to describe with examples where there are
energy transfers in a closed system, that there is no net change to
the total energy.
Students should be able to describe, with examples, how in all
system changes energy is dissipated, so that it is stored in less
useful ways. This energy is often described as being ‘wasted’.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   21

=== PDF page 22 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to explain ways of reducing unwanted
energy transfers, for example through lubrication and the use of
thermal insulation.
The higher the thermal conductivity of a material the higher the rate
of energy transfer by conduction across the material.
Students should be able to describe how the rate of cooling of a
building is affected by the thickness and thermal conductivity of its
walls.
Students do not need to know the definition of thermal conductivity.
WS 1.4
AT 1, 5
Investigate thermal
conductivity using rods of
different materials.
Required practical activity 2 (physics only): investigate the effectiveness of different materials
as thermal insulators and the factors that may affect the thermal insulation properties of a material.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1 and 5.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 90).
4.1.2.2 Efficiency
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The energy efficiency for any energy transfer can be calculated
using the equation:
e f f iciency  =  use f ul out put energ y trans f er
total in put energ y trans f er
Efficiency may also be calculated using the equation:
e f f iciency  =  use f ul power out put
total power in put 
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply both
equations.
MS 1a, c, 3b, c
Students may be required
to calculate or use efficiency
values as a decimal or as a
percentage.
(HT only) Students should be able to describe ways to increase the
efficiency of an intended energy transfer.
(HT only) WS 1.4
22   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 23 ===
4.1.3 National and global energy resources
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The main energy resources available for use on Earth include: fossil
fuels (coal, oil and gas), nuclear fuel, bio-fuel, wind, hydro-
electricity, geothermal, the tides, the Sun and water waves.
A renewable energy resource is one that is being (or can be)
replenished as it is used.
The uses of energy resources include: transport, electricity
generation and heating.
Students should be able to:
• describe the main energy sources available
• distinguish between energy resources that are renewable and
energy resources that are non-renewable
• compare ways that different energy resources are used, the
uses to include transport, electricity generation and heating
• understand why some energy resources are more reliable
than others
WS 4.4
• describe the environmental impact arising from the use of
different energy resources
WS 1.3, 1.4
• explain patterns and trends in the use of energy resources. WS 3.5
Descriptions of how energy resources are used to generate
electricity are not required.
Students should be able to:
• consider the environmental issues that may arise from the use
of different energy resources
• show that science has the ability to identify environmental
issues arising from the use of energy resources but not
always the power to deal with the issues because of political,
social, ethical or economic considerations.
WS 1.3, 1.4, 4.4
MS 1c, 2c, 4a
4.2 Electricity
Electric charge is a fundamental property of matter everywhere. Understanding the difference in
the microstructure of conductors, semiconductors and insulators makes it possible to design
components and build electric circuits. Many circuits are powered with mains electricity, but
portable electrical devices must use batteries of some kind.
Electrical power fills the modern world with artificial light and sound, information and entertainment,
remote sensing and control. The fundamentals of electromagnetism were worked out by scientists
of the 19th century. However, power stations, like all machines, have a limited lifetime. If we all
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   23

=== PDF page 24 ===
continue to demand more electricity this means building new power stations in every generation –
but what mix of power stations can promise a sustainable future?
4.2.1 Current, potential difference and resistance
4.2.1.1 Standard circuit diagram symbols
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Circuit diagrams use standard symbols.
Students should be able to draw and interpret circuit diagrams.
WS 1.2
4.2.1.2 Electrical charge and current
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
For electrical charge to flow through a closed circuit the circuit must
include a source of potential difference.
24   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 25 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Electric current is a flow of electrical charge. The size of the electric
current is the rate of flow of electrical charge. Charge flow, current
and time are linked by the equation:
charge f low = current × time
Q   = I t
charge flow, Q, in coulombs, C
current, I, in amperes, A (amp is acceptable for ampere)
time, t, in seconds, s
A current has the same value at any point in a single closed loop.
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
4.2.1.3 Current, resistance and potential difference
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The current (I) through a component depends on both the
resistance (R) of the component and the potential difference (V)
across the component. The greater the resistance of the component
the smaller the current for a given potential difference (pd) across
the component.
Questions will be set using the term potential difference. Students
will gain credit for the correct use of either potential difference or
voltage.
Current, potential difference or resistance can be calculated using
the equation:
potential di f f erence  = current × resistance
V   = I R
potential difference, V, in volts, V
current, I, in amperes, A (amp is acceptable for ampere)
resistance, R, in ohms, Ω
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
Required practical activity 3: Use circuit diagrams to set up and check appropriate circuits to
investigate the factors affecting the resistance of electrical circuits. This should include:
• the length of a wire at constant temperature
• combinations of resistors in series and parallel.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1, 6 and 7.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 91).
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   25

=== PDF page 26 ===
4.2.1.4 Resistors
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to explain that, for some resistors, the
value of R remains constant but that in others it can change as the
current changes.
The current through an ohmic conductor (at a constant
temperature) is directly proportional to the potential difference
across the resistor. This means that the resistance remains
constant as the current changes.
The resistance of components such as lamps, diodes, thermistors
and LDRs is not constant; it changes with the current through the
component.
The resistance of a filament lamp increases as the temperature of
the filament increases.
The current through a diode flows in one direction only. The diode
has a very high resistance in the reverse direction.
26   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 27 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The resistance of a thermistor decreases as the temperature
increases.
The applications of thermistors in circuits eg a thermostat is
required.
The resistance of an LDR decreases as light intensity increases.
The application of LDRs in circuits eg switching lights on when it
gets dark is required.
Students should be able to:
WS 1.2, 1.4
• explain the design and use of a circuit to measure the
resistance of a component by measuring the current through,
and potential difference across, the component
• draw an appropriate circuit diagram using correct circuit
symbols.
AT 6
Investigate the relationship
between the resistance of a
thermistor and temperature.
Investigate the relationship
between the resistance of
an LDR and light intensity.
Students should be able to use graphs to explore whether circuit
elements are linear or non-linear and relate the curves produced to
their function and properties.
WS 1.2, 1.4
MS 4c, d, e
Required practical activity 4: use circuit diagrams to construct appropriate circuits to investigate
the I–V characteristics of a variety of circuit elements, including a filament lamp, a diode and a
resistor at constant temperature.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 6 and 7.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 93).
4.2.2 Series and parallel circuits
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
There are two ways of joining electrical components, in series and
in parallel. Some circuits include both series and parallel parts.
For components connected in series:
• there is the same current through each component
• the total potential difference of the power supply is shared
between the components
• the total resistance of two components is the sum of the
resistance of each component.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   27

=== PDF page 28 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Rtotal = R1 + R2
resistance, R, in ohms, Ω
For components connected in parallel:
• the potential difference across each component is the same
• the total current through the whole circuit is the sum of the
currents through the separate components
• the total resistance of two resistors is less than the resistance
of the smallest individual resistor.
Students should be able to:
MS 1c, 3b, 3c, 3d
• use circuit diagrams to construct and check series and
parallel circuits that include a variety of common circuit
components
• describe the difference between series and parallel circuits
• explain qualitatively why adding resistors in series increases
the total resistance whilst adding resistors in parallel
decreases the total resistance
AT 7
• explain the design and use of dc series circuits for
measurement and testing purposes
WS 1.4
• calculate the currents, potential differences and resistances in
dc series circuits
• solve problems for circuits which include resistors in series
using the concept of equivalent resistance.
Students are not required to calculate the total resistance of two
resistors joined in parallel.
MS 1c, 3b, c, d
4.2.3 Domestic uses and safety
4.2.3.1 Direct and alternating potential difference
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Mains electricity is an ac supply. In the United Kingdom the
domestic electricity supply has a frequency of 50 Hz and is about
230 V.
Students should be able to explain the difference between direct
and alternating potential difference.
28   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 29 ===
4.2.3.2 Mains electricity
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Most electrical appliances are connected to the mains using three-
core cable.
The insulation covering each wire is colour coded for easy
identification:
live wire – brown
neutral wire – blue
earth wire – green and yellow stripes.
The live wire carries the alternating potential difference from the
supply. The neutral wire completes the circuit. The earth wire is a
safety wire to stop the appliance becoming live.
The potential difference between the live wire and earth (0 V) is
about 230 V. The neutral wire is at, or close to, earth potential (0 V).
The earth wire is at 0 V, it only carries a current if there is a fault.
Students should be able to explain:
• that a live wire may be dangerous even when a switch in the
mains circuit is open
• the dangers of providing any connection between the live wire
and earth.
WS 1.5
4.2.4 Energy transfers
4.2.4.1 Power
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to explain how the power transfer in any
circuit device is related to the potential difference across it and the
current through it, and to the energy changes over time:
power = potential di f f erence  × current
P  = V  I
power = current 2 × resistance
P  =  I 2 R
power, P, in watts, W
potential difference, V, in volts, V
current, I, in amperes, A (amp is acceptable for ampere)
resistance, R, in ohms, Ω
MS 3b, c
WS 4.5
Students should be able to
recall and apply both
equations.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   29

=== PDF page 30 ===
4.2.4.2 Energy transfers in everyday appliances
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Everyday electrical appliances are designed to bring about energy
transfers.
The amount of energy an appliance transfers depends on how long
the appliance is switched on for and the power of the appliance.
Students should be able to describe how different domestic
appliances transfer energy from batteries or ac mains to the kinetic
energy of electric motors or the energy of heating devices.
Work is done when charge flows in a circuit.
The amount of energy transferred by electrical work can be
calculated using the equation:
energ y trans f erred = power × time
E  = P t
energ y trans f erred = charge f low × potential di f f erence
E  = Q V
energy transferred, E, in joules, J
power, P, in watts, W
time, t, in seconds, s
charge flow, Q, in coulombs, C
potential difference, V, in volts, V
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply both
equations.
WS 1.4
Students should be able to explain how the power of a circuit device
is related to:
• the potential difference across it and the current through it
• the energy transferred over a given time.
Students should be able to describe, with examples, the
relationship between the power ratings for domestic electrical
appliances and the changes in stored energy when they are in use.
WS 1.2
4.2.4.3 The National Grid
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The National Grid is a system of cables and transformers linking
power stations to consumers.
30   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 31 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Electrical power is transferred from power stations to consumers
using the National Grid.
Step-up transformers are used to increase the potential difference
from the power station to the transmission cables then step-down
transformers are used to decrease, to a much lower value, the
potential difference for domestic use.
Students should be able to explain why the National Grid system is
an efficient way to transfer energy.
The construction and
operation of transformers is
covered Transformers (HT
only) (page 72).
WS 1.4
4.2.5 Static electricity (physics only)
4.2.5.1 Static charge
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When certain insulating materials are rubbed against each other
they become electrically charged. Negatively charged electrons are
rubbed off one material and on to the other. The material that gains
electrons becomes negatively charged. The material that loses
electrons is left with an equal positive charge.
When two electrically charged objects are brought close together
they exert a force on each other. Two objects that carry the same
type of charge repel. Two objects that carry different types of
charge attract. Attraction and repulsion between two charged
objects are examples of non-contact force.
Students should be able to:
• describe the production of static electricity, and sparking, by
rubbing surfaces
• describe evidence that charged objects exert forces of
attraction or repulsion on one another when not in contact
• explain how the transfer of electrons between objects can
explain the phenomena of static electricity.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   31

=== PDF page 32 ===
4.2.5.2 Electric fields
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A charged object creates an electric field around itself. The electric
field is strongest close to the charged object. The further away from
the charged object, the weaker the field.
A second charged object placed in the field experiences a force.
The force gets stronger as the distance between the objects
decreases.
Students should be able to:
• draw the electric field pattern for an isolated charged sphere
• explain the concept of an electric field
• explain how the concept of an electric field helps to explain
the non-contact force between charged objects as well as
other electrostatic phenomena such as sparking.
WS 1.2, 1.5
4.3 Particle model of matter
The particle model is widely used to predict the behaviour of solids, liquids and gases and this has
many applications in everyday life. It helps us to explain a wide range of observations and
engineers use these principles when designing vessels to withstand high pressures and
temperatures, such as submarines and spacecraft. It also explains why it is difficult to make a good
cup of tea high up a mountain!
4.3.1 Changes of state and the particle model
4.3.1.1 Density of materials
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The density of a material is defined by the equation:
densit y =  mass
volume
ρ = m
V
density, ρ, in kilograms per metre cubed, kg/m3
mass, m, in kilograms, kg
volume, V, in metres cubed, m3
The particle model can be used to explain
• the different states of matter
• differences in density.
MS 1a, b, c, 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation to changes where
mass is conserved.
32   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 33 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to recognise/draw simple diagrams to
model the difference between solids, liquids and gases.
WS 1.2
Students should be able to explain the differences in density
between the different states of matter in terms of the arrangement
of atoms or molecules.
WS 1.2
Required practical activity 5: use appropriate apparatus to make and record the measurements
needed to determine the densities of regular and irregular solid objects and liquids. Volume should
be determined from the dimensions of regularly shaped objects, and by a displacement technique
for irregularly shaped objects. Dimensions to be measured using appropriate apparatus such as a
ruler, micrometer or Vernier callipers.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 94).
4.3.1.2 Changes of state
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to describe how, when substances change
state (melt, freeze, boil, evaporate, condense or sublimate), mass is
conserved.
Changes of state are physical changes which differ from chemical
changes because the material recovers its original properties if the
change is reversed.
4.3.2 Internal energy and energy transfers
4.3.2.1 Internal energy
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Energy is stored inside a system by the particles (atoms and
molecules) that make up the system. This is called internal energy.
Internal energy is the total kinetic energy and potential energy of all
the particles (atoms and molecules) that make up a system.
Heating changes the energy stored within the system by increasing
the energy of the particles that make up the system. This either
raises the temperature of the system or produces a change of state.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   33

=== PDF page 34 ===
4.3.2.2 Temperature changes in a system and specific heat capacity
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
If the temperature of the system increases, the increase in
temperature depends on the mass of the substance heated, the
type of material and the energy input to the system.
The following equation applies:
change in thermal energ y = mass × s peci f ic heat ca pacit y 
× tem perature change
∆ E  = m c  ∆ θ
change in thermal energy, ∆E, in joules, J
mass, m, in kilograms, kg
specific heat capacity, c, in joules per kilogram per degree Celsius,
J/kg °C
temperature change, ∆θ, in degrees Celsius, °C.
The specific heat capacity of a substance is the amount of energy
required to raise the temperature of one kilogram of the substance
by one degree Celsius.
MS 1a, 3b, c, d
Students should be able to
apply this equation, which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet, to calculate
the energy change involved
when the temperature of a
material changes.
This equation and specific
heat capacity are also
included in Energy changes
in systems (page 19).
4.3.2.3 Changes of state and specific latent heat
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
If a change of state happens:
The energy needed for a substance to change state is called latent
heat. When a change of state occurs, the energy supplied changes
the energy stored (internal energy) but not the temperature.
The specific latent heat of a substance is the amount of energy
required to change the state of one kilogram of the substance with
no change in temperature.
34   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 35 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
energ y f or a change o f  state = mass × s peci f ic latent heat
E  = m L
energy, E, in joules, J
mass, m, in kilograms, kg
specific latent heat, L, in joules per kilogram, J/kg
Specific latent heat of fusion – change of state from solid to liquid
Specific latent heat of vaporisation – change of state from liquid to
vapour
MS 1a, 3b, c, d
Students should be able to
apply this equation, which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet, to calculate
the energy change involved
in a change of state.
MS 4a
AT 5
Perform an experiment to
measure the latent heat of
fusion of water.
Students should be able to interpret heating and cooling graphs that
include changes of state.
Students should be able to distinguish between specific heat
capacity and specific latent heat.
WS 3.5
4.3.3 Particle model and pressure
4.3.3.1 Particle motion in gases
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The molecules of a gas are in constant random motion. The
temperature of the gas is related to the average kinetic energy of
the molecules.
Changing the temperature of a gas, held at constant volume,
changes the pressure exerted by the gas.
WS 1.2
Students should be able to:
• explain how the motion of the molecules in a gas is related to
both its temperature and its pressure
• explain qualitatively the relation between the temperature of a
gas and its pressure at constant volume.
WS 1.2
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   35

=== PDF page 36 ===
4.3.3.2 Pressure in gases (physics only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A gas can be compressed or expanded by pressure changes. The
pressure produces a net force at right angles to the wall of the gas
container (or any surface).
WS 1.2
Students should be able to use the particle model to explain how
increasing the volume in which a gas is contained, at constant
temperature, can lead to a decrease in pressure.
For a fixed mass of gas held at a constant temperature:
pressure ×  volume =  constant
p V   =  constant
pressure, p, in pascals, Pa
volume, V, in metres cubed, m3
Students should be able to calculate the change in the pressure of
a gas or the volume of a gas (a fixed mass held at constant
temperature) when either the pressure or volume is increased or
decreased.
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet.
4.3.3.3 Increasing the pressure of a gas (physics only) (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Work is the transfer of energy by a force.
Doing work on a gas increases the internal energy of the gas and
can cause an increase in the temperature of the gas.
Students should be able to explain how, in a given situation eg a
bicycle pump, doing work on an enclosed gas leads to an increase
in the temperature of the gas.
WS 1.2
4.4 Atomic structure
Ionising radiation is hazardous but can be very useful. Although radioactivity was discovered over
a century ago, it took many nuclear physicists several decades to understand the structure of
atoms, nuclear forces and stability. Early researchers suffered from their exposure to ionising
radiation. Rules for radiological protection were first introduced in the 1930s and subsequently
improved. Today radioactive materials are widely used in medicine, industry, agriculture and
electrical power generation.
4.4.1 Atoms and isotopes
36   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 37 ===
4.4.1.1 The structure of an atom
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Atoms are very small, having a radius of about 1 × 10-10 metres.
The basic structure of an atom is a positively charged nucleus
composed of both protons and neutrons surrounded by negatively
charged electrons.
The radius of a nucleus is less than 1/10 000 of the radius of an
atom. Most of the mass of an atom is concentrated in the nucleus.
The electrons are arranged at different distances from the nucleus
(different energy levels). The electron arrangements may change
with the absorption of electromagnetic radiation (move further from
the nucleus; a higher energy level) or by the emission of
electromagnetic radiation (move closer to the nucleus; a lower
energy level).
MS 1b
WS 4.4
Students should be able to
recognise expressions
given in standard form.
4.4.1.2 Mass number, atomic number and isotopes
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
In an atom the number of electrons is equal to the number of
protons in the nucleus. Atoms have no overall electrical charge.
All atoms of a particular element have the same number of protons.
The number of protons in an atom of an element is called its atomic
number.
The total number of protons and neutrons in an atom is called its
mass number.
Atoms can be represented as shown in this example:
Atoms of the same element can have different numbers of
neutrons; these atoms are called isotopes of that element.
Atoms turn into positive ions if they lose one or more outer
electron(s).
Students should be able to relate differences between isotopes to
differences in conventional representations of their identities,
charges and masses.
WS 4.1
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   37

=== PDF page 38 ===
4.4.1.3 The development of the model of the atom (common content with chemistry)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
New experimental evidence may lead to a scientific model being
changed or replaced.
Before the discovery of the electron, atoms were thought to be tiny
spheres that could not be divided.
The discovery of the electron led to the plum pudding model of the
atom. The plum pudding model suggested that the atom is a ball of
positive charge with negative electrons embedded in it.
The results from the alpha particle scattering experiment led to the
conclusion that the mass of an atom was concentrated at the centre
(nucleus) and that the nucleus was charged. This nuclear model
replaced the plum pudding model.
Niels Bohr adapted the nuclear model by suggesting that electrons
orbit the nucleus at specific distances. The theoretical calculations
of Bohr agreed with experimental observations.
Later experiments led to the idea that the positive charge of any
nucleus could be subdivided into a whole number of smaller
particles, each particle having the same amount of positive charge.
The name proton was given to these particles.
The experimental work of James Chadwick provided the evidence
to show the existence of neutrons within the nucleus. This was
about 20 years after the nucleus became an accepted scientific
idea.
Students should be able to describe:
WS 1.1, 1.6
This historical context
provides an opportunity for
students to show an
understanding of why and
describe how scientific
methods and theories
develop over time.
WS 1.2
• why the new evidence from the scattering experiment led to a
change in the atomic model
WS 1.1
• the difference between the plum pudding model of the atom
and the nuclear model of the atom.
WS 1.2
Details of experimental work supporting the Bohr model are not
required.
Details of Chadwick’s experimental work are not required.
38   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 39 ===
4.4.2 Atoms and nuclear radiation
4.4.2.1 Radioactive decay and nuclear radiation
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Some atomic nuclei are unstable. The nucleus gives out radiation
as it changes to become more stable. This is a random process
called radioactive decay.
Activity is the rate at which a source of unstable nuclei decays.
Activity is measured in becquerel (Bq)
Count-rate is the number of decays recorded each second by a
detector (eg Geiger-Muller tube).
The nuclear radiation emitted may be:
• an alpha particle (α) – this consists of two neutrons and two
protons, it is the same as a helium nucleus
• a beta particle (β) – a high speed electron ejected from the
nucleus as a neutron turns into a proton
• a gamma ray (γ) – electromagnetic radiation from the nucleus
• a neutron (n).
Required knowledge of the properties of alpha particles, beta
particles and gamma rays is limited to their penetration through
materials, their range in air and ionising power.
Students should be able to apply their knowledge to the uses of
radiation and evaluate the best sources of radiation to use in a
given situation.
WS 1.4, 1.5
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   39

=== PDF page 40 ===
4.4.2.2 Nuclear equations
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Nuclear equations are used to represent radioactive decay.
In a nuclear equation an alpha particle may be represented by the
symbol:
and a beta particle by the symbol:
The emission of the different types of nuclear radiation may cause a
change in the mass and /or the charge of the nucleus. For example:
So alpha decay causes both the mass and charge of the nucleus to
decrease.
So beta decay does not cause the mass of the nucleus to change
but does cause the charge of the nucleus to increase.
Students are not required to recall these two examples.
Students should be able to use the names and symbols of common
nuclei and particles to write balanced equations that show single
alpha (α) and beta (β) decay. This is limited to balancing the atomic
numbers and mass numbers. The identification of daughter
elements from such decays is not required.
The emission of a gamma ray does not cause the mass or the
charge of the nucleus to change.
WS 1.2, 4.1
MS 1b, c, 3c
4.4.2.3 Half-lives and the random nature of radioactive decay
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Radioactive decay is random.
The half-life of a radioactive isotope is the time it takes for the
number of nuclei of the isotope in a sample to halve, or the time it
takes for the count rate (or activity) from a sample containing the
isotope to fall to half its initial level.
40   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 41 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to explain the concept of half-life and how
it is related to the random nature of radioactive decay.
WS 1.2
Students should be able to determine the half-life of a radioactive
isotope from given information.
MS 4a
(HT only) Students should be able to calculate the net decline,
expressed as a ratio, in a radioactive emission after a given number
of half-lives.
(HT only) MS 1c, 3d
4.4.2.4 Radioactive contamination
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Radioactive contamination is the unwanted presence of materials
containing radioactive atoms on other materials. The hazard from
contamination is due to the decay of the contaminating atoms. The
type of radiation emitted affects the level of hazard.
Irradiation is the process of exposing an object to nuclear radiation.
The irradiated object does not become radioactive.
WS 1.5
Students should be able to compare the hazards associated with
contamination and irradiation.
WS 1.5
Suitable precautions must be taken to protect against any hazard
that the radioactive source used in the process of irradiation may
present.
WS 1.5
Students should understand that it is important for the findings of
studies into the effects of radiation on humans to be published and
shared with other scientists so that the findings can be checked by
peer review.
WS 1.6
4.4.3 Hazards and uses of radioactive emissions and of background
radiation (physics only)
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   41

=== PDF page 42 ===
4.4.3.1 Background radiation
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Background radiation is around us all of the time. It comes from:
• natural sources such as rocks and cosmic rays from space
• man-made sources such as the fallout from nuclear weapons
testing and nuclear accidents.
The level of background radiation and radiation dose may be
affected by occupation and/or location.
Radiation dose is measured in sieverts (Sv)
1000 millisieverts (mSv) = 1 sievert (Sv)
Students will not need to recall the unit of radiation dose.
WS 4.4
4.4.3.2 Different half-lives of radioactive isotopes
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Radioactive isotopes have a very wide range of half-life values.
Students should be able to explain why the hazards associated with
radioactive material differ according to the half-life involved.
MS 1b
Students should be able to
use data presented in
standard form.
4.4.3.3 Uses of nuclear radiation
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Nuclear radiations are used in medicine for the:
• exploration of internal organs
• control or destruction of unwanted tissue.
Students should be able to:
• describe and evaluate the uses of nuclear radiations for
exploration of internal organs, and for control or destruction of
unwanted tissue
WS 1.4
• evaluate the perceived risks of using nuclear radiations in
relation to given data and consequences.
WS 1.5
4.4.4 Nuclear fission and fusion (physics only)
42   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 43 ===
4.4.4.1 Nuclear fission
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Nuclear fission is the splitting of a large and unstable nucleus (eg
uranium or plutonium).
Spontaneous fission is rare. Usually, for fission to occur the
unstable nucleus must first absorb a neutron.
The nucleus undergoing fission splits into two smaller nuclei,
roughly equal in size, and emits two or three neutrons plus gamma
rays. Energy is released by the fission reaction.
All of the fission products have kinetic energy.
The neutrons may go on to start a chain reaction.
The chain reaction is controlled in a nuclear reactor to control the
energy released. The explosion caused by a nuclear weapon is
caused by an uncontrolled chain reaction.
Students should be able to draw/interpret diagrams representing
nuclear fission and how a chain reaction may occur.
4.4.4.2 Nuclear fusion
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Nuclear fusion is the joining of two light nuclei to form a heavier
nucleus. In this process some of the mass may be converted into
the energy of radiation.
4.5 Forces
Engineers analyse forces when designing a great variety of machines and instruments, from road
bridges and fairground rides to atomic force microscopes. Anything mechanical can be analysed in
this way. Recent developments in artificial limbs use the analysis of forces to make movement
possible.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   43

=== PDF page 44 ===
4.5.1 Forces and their interactions
4.5.1.1 Scalar and vector quantities
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Scalar quantities have magnitude only.
Vector quantities have magnitude and an associated direction.
A vector quantity may be represented by an arrow. The length of
the arrow represents the magnitude, and the direction of the arrow
the direction of the vector quantity.
4.5.1.2 Contact and non-contact forces
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A force is a push or pull that acts on an object due to the interaction
with another object. All forces between objects are either:
• contact forces – the objects are physically touching
• non-contact forces – the objects are physically separated.
Examples of contact forces include friction, air resistance, tension
and normal contact force.
Examples of non-contact forces are gravitational force, electrostatic
force and magnetic force.
Force is a vector quantity.
Students should be able to describe the interaction between pairs
of objects which produce a force on each object. The forces to be
represented as vectors.
4.5.1.3 Gravity
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Weight is the force acting on an object due to gravity. The force of
gravity close to the Earth is due to the gravitational field around the
Earth.
The weight of an object depends on the gravitational field strength
at the point where the object is.
44   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 45 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The weight of an object can be calculated using the equation:
weight  = mass  × gravitational field strength
 W   = m g 
weight, W, in newtons, N
mass, m, in kilograms, kg
gravitational field strength, g, in newtons per kilogram, N/kg (In any
calculation the value of the gravitational field strength (g) will be
given.)
The weight of an object may be considered to act at a single point
referred to as the object’s ‘centre of mass’.
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
The weight of an object and the mass of an object are directly
proportional.
Weight is measured using a calibrated spring-balance (a
newtonmeter).
MS 3a
Students should recognise
and be able to use the
symbol for proportionality, ∝
4.5.1.4 Resultant forces
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A number of forces acting on an object may be replaced by a single
force that has the same effect as all the original forces acting
together. This single force is called the resultant force.
Students should be able to calculate the resultant of two forces that
act in a straight line.
(HT only) Students should be able to:
• describe examples of the forces acting on an isolated object
or system
• use free body diagrams to describe qualitatively examples
where several forces lead to a resultant force on an object,
including balanced forces when the resultant force is zero.
(HT only) A single force can be resolved into two components
acting at right angles to each other. The two component forces
together have the same effect as the single force.
WS 1.2
(HT only) Students should be able to use vector diagrams to
illustrate resolution of forces, equilibrium situations and determine
the resultant of two forces, to include both magnitude and direction
(scale drawings only).
MS 4a, 5a, b
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   45

=== PDF page 46 ===
4.5.2 Work done and energy transfer
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When a force causes an object to move through a distance work is
done on the object. So a force does work on an object when the
force causes a displacement of the object.
The work done by a force on an object can be calculated using the
equation:
work done = force × distance 
moved along the line of action of the force
 W   = F s 
work done, W, in joules, J
force, F, in newtons, N
distance, s, in metres
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
One joule of work is done when a force of one newton causes a
displacement of one metre.
1 joule = 1 newton-metre
Students should be able to describe the energy transfer involved
when work is done.
WS 4.5
Students should be able to convert between newton-metres and
joules.
Work done against the frictional forces acting on an object causes a
rise in the temperature of the object.
MS 1c
WS 4.5
4.5.3 Forces and elasticity
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to:
• give examples of the forces involved in stretching, bending or
compressing an object
• explain why, to change the shape of an object (by stretching,
bending or compressing), more than one force has to be
applied – this is limited to stationary objects only
• describe the difference between elastic deformation and
inelastic deformation caused by stretching forces.
The extension of an elastic object, such as a spring, is directly
proportional to the force applied, provided that the limit of
proportionality is not exceeded.
46   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 47 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
f orce = s pring constant × extension
 F  = k e 
force, F, in newtons, N
spring constant, k, in newtons per metre, N/m
extension, e, in metres, m
MS 3b, c, 4a
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
This relationship also applies to the compression of an elastic
object, where ‘e’ would be the compression of the object.
A force that stretches (or compresses) a spring does work and
elastic potential energy is stored in the spring. Provided the spring
is not inelastically deformed, the work done on the spring and the
elastic potential energy stored are equal.
Students should be able to:
• describe the difference between a linear and non-linear
relationship between force and extension
• calculate a spring constant in linear cases
MS 3b, c, 4a
• interpret data from an investigation of the relationship
between force and extension
WS 3.5
• calculate work done in stretching (or compressing) a spring
(up to the limit of proportionality) using the equation:
elastic potential energ y = 0.5 × s pring constant × extension 2
Ee   =   1
2 k e2
MS 3c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet.
This equation is also given
in Changes in energy (page
18).
Students should be able to calculate relevant values of stored
energy and energy transfers.
MS 3c
Required practical activity 6: investigate the relationship between force and extension for a
spring.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1 and 2.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 95).
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   47

=== PDF page 48 ===
4.5.4 Moments, levers and gears (physics only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A force or a system of forces may cause an object to rotate.
Students should be able to describe examples in which forces
cause rotation.
The turning effect of a force is called the moment of the force. The
size of the moment is defined by the equation:
moment o f  a f orce = f orce ×  distance   
M   =  F d
moment of a force, M, in newton-metres, Nm
force, F, in newtons, N
distance, d, is the perpendicular distance from the pivot to the line
of action of the force, in metres, m.
If an object is balanced, the total clockwise moment about a pivot
equals the total anticlockwise moment about that pivot.
Students should be able to calculate the size of a force, or its
distance from a pivot, acting on an object that is balanced.
A simple lever and a simple gear system can both be used to
transmit the rotational effects of forces.
Students should be able to explain how levers and gears transmit
the rotational effects of forces.
MS 3c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
4.5.5 Pressure and pressure differences in fluids (physics only)
4.5.5.1 Pressure in a fluid
4.5.5.1.1 Pressure in a fluid 1
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A fluid can be either a liquid or a gas.
The pressure in fluids causes a force normal (at right angles) to any
surface.
The pressure at the surface of a fluid can be calculated using the
equation:
48   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 49 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
pressure = force normal to a surface
area of that surface
p = F
A
pressure, p, in pascals, Pa
force, F, in newtons, N
area, A, in metres squared, m2
MS 3b, c
WS 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
4.5.5.1.2 Pressure in a fluid 2 (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The pressure due to a column of liquid can be calculated using the
equation:
pressure =  height of the column ×  density of the liquid 
×  gravitational field strength
[ p = h ρ g ]
pressure, p, in pascals, Pa
height of the column, h, in metres, m
density, ρ, in kilograms per metre cubed, kg/m3
gravitational field strength, g, in newtons per kilogram, N/kg (In any
calculation the value of the gravitational field strength (g) will be
given.)
Students should be able to explain why, in a liquid, pressure at a
point increases with the height of the column of liquid above that
point and with the density of the liquid.
MS 3b, 3c
WS 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet.
Students should be able to calculate the differences in pressure at
different depths in a liquid.
A partially (or totally) submerged object experiences a greater
pressure on the bottom surface than on the top surface. This
creates a resultant force upwards. This force is called the upthrust.
Students should be able to describe the factors which influence
floating and sinking.
MS 1c, 3c
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   49

=== PDF page 50 ===
4.5.5.2 Atmospheric pressure
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The atmosphere is a thin layer (relative to the size of the Earth) of
air round the Earth. The atmosphere gets less dense with
increasing altitude.
Air molecules colliding with a surface create atmospheric pressure.
The number of air molecules (and so the weight of air) above a
surface decreases as the height of the surface above ground level
increases. So as height increases there is always less air above a
surface than there is at a lower height. So atmospheric pressure
decreases with an increase in height.
Students should be able to:
• describe a simple model of the Earth’s atmosphere and of
atmospheric pressure
• explain why atmospheric pressure varies with height above a
surface.
WS 1.2
4.5.6 Forces and motion
4.5.6.1 Describing motion along a line
4.5.6.1.1 Distance and displacement
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Distance is how far an object moves. Distance does not involve
direction. Distance is a scalar quantity.
Displacement includes both the distance an object moves,
measured in a straight line from the start point to the finish point
and the direction of that straight line. Displacement is a vector
quantity.
Students should be able to express a displacement in terms of both
the magnitude and direction.
MS 1, 3c
Throughout this section
(Forces and motion),
students should be able to
use ratios and proportional
reasoning to convert units
and to compute rates.
50   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 51 ===
4.5.6.1.2 Speed
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Speed does not involve direction. Speed is a scalar quantity.
The speed of a moving object is rarely constant. When people walk,
run or travel in a car their speed is constantly changing.
The speed at which a person can walk, run or cycle depends on
many factors including: age, terrain, fitness and distance travelled.
Typical values may be taken as:
walking ̴ 1.5 m/s
running ̴ 3 m/s
cycling ̴ 6 m/s.
Students should be able to recall typical values of speed for a
person walking, running and cycling as well as the typical values of
speed for different types of transportation systems.
It is not only moving objects that have varying speed. The speed of
sound and the speed of the wind also vary.
A typical value for the speed of sound in air is 330 m/s.
Students should be able to make measurements of distance and
time and then calculate speeds of objects.
For an object moving at constant speed the distance travelled in a
specific time can be calculated using the equation:
MS 1a, c, 2f
distance travelled  = s peed × time
s  = v t
distance, s, in metres, m
speed, v, in metres per second, m/s
time, t, in seconds, s
MS 3b, 3c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
Students should be able to calculate average speed for non-uniform
motion.
MS 3b, 3c
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   51

=== PDF page 52 ===
4.5.6.1.3 Velocity
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The velocity of an object is its speed in a given direction. Velocity is
a vector quantity.
Students should be able to explain the vector–scalar distinction as it
applies to displacement, distance, velocity and speed.
(HT only) Students should be able to explain qualitatively, with
examples, that motion in a circle involves constant speed but
changing velocity.
4.5.6.1.4 The distance–time relationship
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
If an object moves along a straight line, the distance travelled can
be represented by a distance–time graph.
The speed of an object can be calculated from the gradient of its
distance–time graph.
(HT only) If an object is accelerating, its speed at any particular time
can be determined by drawing a tangent and measuring the
gradient of the distance–time graph at that time.
Students should be able to draw distance–time graphs from
measurements and extract and interpret lines and slopes of
distance–time graphs, translating information between graphical
and numerical form.
Students should be able to determine speed from a distance–time
graph.
MS 4a, b, c, d, f
4.5.6.1.5 Acceleration
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The average acceleration of an object can be calculated using the
equation:
52   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 53 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
acceleration = change in velocit y
time taken
a  =   ∆ v
t
acceleration, a, in metres per second squared, m/s2
change in velocity, ∆v, in metres per second, m/s
time, t, in seconds, s
An object that slows down is decelerating.
Students should be able to estimate the magnitude of everyday
accelerations.
MS 1d, 3b, 3c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
The acceleration of an object can be calculated from the gradient of
a velocity–time graph.
(HT only) The distance travelled by an object (or displacement of an
object) can be calculated from the area under a velocity–time
graph.
Students should be able to:
MS 4a, b, c, d, f
• draw velocity–time graphs from measurements and interpret
lines and slopes to determine acceleration
• (HT only) interpret enclosed areas in velocity–time graphs to
determine distance travelled (or displacement)
WS 3.3
• (HT only) measure, when appropriate, the area under a
velocity–time graph by counting squares.
WS 3.3
The following equation applies to uniform acceleration:
f inal velocit y 2 − initial velocit y 2 = 2 × acceleration × distance
v2  −  u2  = 2 a s
final velocity, v, in metres per second, m/s
initial velocity, u, in metres per second, m/s
acceleration, a, in metres per second squared, m/s2
distance, s, in metres, m
Near the Earth’s surface any object falling freely under gravity has
an acceleration of about 9.8 m/s2.
MS 3b, 3c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet.
An object falling through a fluid initially accelerates due to the force
of gravity. Eventually the resultant force will be zero and the object
will move at its terminal velocity.
(Physics only) Students should be able to:
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   53

=== PDF page 54 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
• draw and interpret velocity–time graphs for objects that reach
terminal velocity
• interpret the changing motion in terms of the forces acting.
WS 3.3, 3.5
AT 1, 2
Investigation to measure
the effect of air resistance
on a falling object eg a
model parachute.
4.5.6.2 Forces, accelerations and Newton's Laws of motion
4.5.6.2.1 Newton's First Law
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Newton’s First Law:
If the resultant force acting on an object is zero and:
• the object is stationary, the object remains stationary
• the object is moving, the object continues to move at the
same speed and in the same direction. So the object
continues to move at the same velocity.
So, when a vehicle travels at a steady speed the resistive forces
balance the driving force.
So, the velocity (speed and/or direction) of an object will only
change if a resultant force is acting on the object.
Students should be able to apply Newton’s First Law to explain the
motion of objects moving with a uniform velocity and objects where
the speed and/or direction changes.
(HT only) The tendency of objects to continue in their state of rest
or of uniform motion is called inertia.
4.5.6.2.2 Newton's Second Law
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Newton’s Second Law:
The acceleration of an object is proportional to the resultant force
acting on the object, and inversely proportional to the mass of the
object.
As an equation:
MS 3a
Students should recognise
and be able to use the
symbol for proportionality, ∝
54   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 55 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
resultant f orce = mass × acceleration
F  = m a
force, F, in newtons, N
mass, m, in kilograms, kg
acceleration, a, in metres per second squared, m/s2
MS 3b, c
WS 4.2
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
(HT only) Students should be able to explain that:
• inertial mass is a measure of how difficult it is to change the
velocity of an object
• inertial mass is defined as the ratio of force over acceleration.
MS 3a
Students should be able to estimate the speed, accelerations and
forces involved in large accelerations for everyday road transport.
Students should recognise and be able to use the symbol that
indicates an approximate value or approximate answer, ̴
MS 1d
Required practical activity 7: investigate the effect of varying the force on the acceleration of an
object of constant mass, and the effect of varying the mass of an object on the acceleration
produced by a constant force.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1, 2 and 3.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 96).
4.5.6.2.3 Newton's Third Law
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Newton’s Third Law:
Whenever two objects interact, the forces they exert on each other
are equal and opposite.
Students should be able to apply Newton’s Third Law to examples
of equilibrium situations.
WS 1.2
4.5.6.3 Forces and braking
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   55

=== PDF page 56 ===
4.5.6.3.1 Stopping distance
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The stopping distance of a vehicle is the sum of the distance the
vehicle travels during the driver’s reaction time (thinking distance)
and the distance it travels under the braking force (braking
distance). For a given braking force the greater the speed of the
vehicle, the greater the stopping distance.
(Physics only) Students should be able to estimate how the
distance for a vehicle to make an emergency stop varies over a
range of speeds typical for that vehicle.
(Physics only) Students will be required to interpret graphs relating
speed to stopping distance for a range of vehicles.
WS 3.3
4.5.6.3.2 Reaction time
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Reaction times vary from person to person. Typical values range
from 0.2 s to 0.9 s.
A driver’s reaction time can be affected by tiredness, drugs and
alcohol. Distractions may also affect a driver’s ability to react.
Students should be able to:
• explain methods used to measure human reaction times and
recall typical results
• interpret and evaluate measurements from simple methods to
measure the different reaction times of students
WS 3.5, 3.7
• evaluate the effect of various factors on thinking distance
based on given data.
WS 1.5, 2.2
MS 1a, c
AT 1
Measure the effect of
distractions on reaction
time.
56   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 57 ===
4.5.6.3.3 Factors affecting braking distance 1
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The braking distance of a vehicle can be affected by adverse road
and weather conditions and poor condition of the vehicle.
Adverse road conditions include wet or icy conditions. Poor
condition of the vehicle is limited to the vehicle's brakes or tyres.
Students should be able to:
• explain the factors which affect the distance required for road
transport vehicles to come to rest in emergencies, and the
implications for safety
• estimate how the distance required for road vehicles to stop in
an emergency varies over a range of typical speeds.
MS 1c, 1d, 2c, 2d, 2f, 2h,
3b, 3c
4.5.6.3.4 Factors affecting braking distance 2
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When a force is applied to the brakes of a vehicle, work done by the
friction force between the brakes and the wheel reduces the kinetic
energy of the vehicle and the temperature of the brakes increases.
The greater the speed of a vehicle the greater the braking force
needed to stop the vehicle in a certain distance.
The greater the braking force the greater the deceleration of the
vehicle. Large decelerations may lead to brakes overheating and/or
loss of control.
Students should be able to:
• explain the dangers caused by large decelerations WS 1.5
• (HT only) estimate the forces involved in the deceleration of
road vehicles in typical situations on a public road.
(HT only) MS 1d
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   57

=== PDF page 58 ===
4.5.7 Momentum (HT only)
4.5.7.1 Momentum is a property of moving objects
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Momentum is defined by the equation:
momentum = mass × velocit y
p  = m v
momentum, p, in kilograms metre per second, kg m/s
mass, m, in kilograms, kg
velocity, v, in metres per second, m/s
WS 1.2
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
4.5.7.2 Conservation of momentum
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
In a closed system, the total momentum before an event is equal to
the total momentum after the event.
This is called conservation of momentum.
Students should be able to use the concept of momentum as a
model to:
• describe and explain examples of momentum in an event,
such as a collision
• (physics only) complete calculations involving an event, such
as the collision of two objects.
AT 1, 2, 3
Investigate collisions
between laboratory trollies
using light gates, data
loggers or ticker timers to
measure and record data.
4.5.7.3 Changes in momentum (physics only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When a force acts on an object that is moving, or able to move, a
change in momentum occurs.
The equations F  =  m  ×  a and a = v − u
t
combine to give the equation F = m  ∆ v
∆ t
where m∆v = change in momentum
ie force equals the rate of change of momentum.
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
Equation sheet.
58   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 59 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to explain safety features such as: air
bags, seat belts, gymnasium crash mats, cycle helmets and
cushioned surfaces for playgrounds with reference to the concept of
rate of change of momentum.
WS 1.2, 4
Students should be able to apply equations relating force, mass,
velocity and acceleration to explain how the changes involved are
inter-related.
MS 3b, 3c, 3d
4.6 Waves
Wave behaviour is common in both natural and man-made systems. Waves carry energy from one
place to another and can also carry information. Designing comfortable and safe structures such
as bridges, houses and music performance halls requires an understanding of mechanical waves.
Modern technologies such as imaging and communication systems show how we can make the
most of electromagnetic waves.
4.6.1 Waves in air, fluids and solids
4.6.1.1 Transverse and longitudinal waves
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Waves may be either transverse or longitudinal.
The ripples on a water surface are an example of a transverse
wave.
Longitudinal waves show areas of compression and rarefaction.
Sound waves travelling through air are longitudinal.
Students should be able to describe the difference between
longitudinal and transverse waves.
WS 1.2
Students should be able to describe evidence that, for both ripples
on a water surface and sound waves in air, it is the wave and not
the water or air itself that travels.
WS 1.2, 2.2
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   59

=== PDF page 60 ===
4.6.1.2 Properties of waves
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to describe wave motion in terms of their
amplitude, wavelength, frequency and period.
The amplitude of a wave is the maximum displacement of a point
on a wave away from its undisturbed position.
The wavelength of a wave is the distance from a point on one wave
to the equivalent point on the adjacent wave.
The frequency of a wave is the number of waves passing a point
each second.
MS 1c, 3b, c
period =  1
f requency
T =   1
f
period, T, in seconds, s
frequency, f, in hertz, Hz
The wave speed is the speed at which the energy is transferred (or
the wave moves) through the medium.
All waves obey the wave equation:
MS 1c, 3b, c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet.
wave s peed = f requency × wavelength
v  = f  λ
wave speed, v, in metres per second, m/s
frequency, f, in hertz, Hz
wavelength, λ, in metres, m
Students should be able to:
• identify amplitude and wavelength from given diagrams
MS 1c, 3b, 3c
Students should be able to
recall and apply this
equation.
• describe a method to measure the speed of sound waves in
air
AT1
WS 2.3, 2.4, 2.6, 2.7, 3.1,
3.5
• describe a method to measure the speed of ripples on a water
surface.
AT1, AT4
WS 2.3, 2.4, 2.6, 2.7, 3.1,
3.5
(Physics only) Students should be able to show how changes in
velocity, frequency and wavelength, in transmission of sound waves
from one medium to another, are inter-related.
(Physics only) MS 1c, 3b,
3c
60   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 61 ===
Required practical activity 8: make observations to identify the suitability of apparatus to
measure the frequency, wavelength and speed of waves in a ripple tank and waves in a solid and
take appropriate measurements.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 4.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 97).
4.6.1.3 Reflection of waves (physics only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Waves can be reflected at the boundary between two different
materials.
Waves can be absorbed or transmitted at the boundary between
two different materials.
Students should be able to construct ray diagrams to illustrate the
reflection of a wave at a surface.
Students should be able to describe the effects of reflection,
transmission and absorption of waves at material interfaces.
MS 5a, 5c
WS 1.2
Required practical activity 9 (physics only): investigate the reflection of light by different types
of surface and the refraction of light by different substances.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 4 and 8.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 98).
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   61

=== PDF page 62 ===
4.6.1.4 Sound waves (physics only) (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Sound waves can travel through solids causing vibrations in the
solid.
Within the ear, sound waves cause the ear drum and other parts to
vibrate which causes the sensation of sound. The conversion of
sound waves to vibrations of solids works over a limited frequency
range. This restricts the limits of human hearing.
Students should be able to:
• describe, with examples, processes which convert wave
disturbances between sound waves and vibrations in solids.
Examples may include the effect of sound waves on the ear
drum
• explain why such processes only work over a limited
frequency range and the relevance of this to human hearing.
Students should know that the range of normal human hearing is
from 20 Hz to 20 kHz.
4.6.1.5 Waves for detection and exploration (physics only) (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to explain in qualitative terms, how the
differences in velocity, absorption and reflection between different
types of wave in solids and liquids can be used both for detection
and exploration of structures which are hidden from direct
observation.
Ultrasound waves have a frequency higher than the upper limit of
hearing for humans. Ultrasound waves are partially reflected when
they meet a boundary between two different media. The time taken
for the reflections to reach a detector can be used to determine how
far away such a boundary is. This allows ultrasound waves to be
used for both medical and industrial imaging.
Seismic waves are produced by earthquakes. P-waves are
longitudinal, seismic waves. P-waves travel at different speeds
through solids and liquids. S-waves are transverse, seismic waves.
S-waves cannot travel through a liquid. P-waves and S-waves
provide evidence for the structure and size of the Earth’s core.
Echo sounding, using high frequency sound waves is used to
detect objects in deep water and measure water depth.
WS 1.4
Students should be aware that the study of seismic waves provided
new evidence that led to discoveries about parts of the Earth which
are not directly observable.
WS 1.1
62   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 63 ===
4.6.2 Electromagnetic waves
4.6.2.1 Types of electromagnetic waves
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Electromagnetic waves are transverse waves that transfer energy
from the source of the waves to an absorber.
Electromagnetic waves form a continuous spectrum and all types of
electromagnetic wave travel at the same velocity through a vacuum
(space) or air.
The waves that form the electromagnetic spectrum are grouped in
terms of their wavelength and their frequency. Going from long to
short wavelength (or from low to high frequency) the groups are:
radio, microwave, infrared, visible light (red to violet), ultraviolet, X-
rays and gamma rays.
Our eyes only detect visible light and so detect a limited range of
electromagnetic waves.
Students should be able to give examples that illustrate the transfer
of energy by electromagnetic waves.
4.6.2.2 Properties of electromagnetic waves 1
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
(HT only) Different substances may absorb, transmit, refract or
reflect electromagnetic waves in ways that vary with wavelength.
(HT only) Some effects, for example refraction, are due to the
difference in velocity of the waves in different substances.
Students should be able to construct ray diagrams to illustrate the
refraction of a wave at the boundary between two different media.
(HT only) Students should be able to use wave front diagrams to
explain refraction in terms of the change of speed that happens
when a wave travels from one medium to a different medium.
WS 1.2
Required practical activity 10: investigate how the amount of infrared radiation absorbed or
radiated by a surface depends on the nature of that surface.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1 and 4.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   63

=== PDF page 64 ===
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 98).
4.6.2.3 Properties of electromagnetic waves 2
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
(HT only) Radio waves can be produced by oscillations in electrical
circuits.
(HT only) When radio waves are absorbed they may create an
alternating current with the same frequency as the radio wave itself,
so radio waves can themselves induce oscillations in an electrical
circuit.
Changes in atoms and the nuclei of atoms can result in
electromagnetic waves being generated or absorbed over a wide
frequency range. Gamma rays originate from changes in the
nucleus of an atom.
Ultraviolet waves, X-rays and gamma rays can have hazardous
effects on human body tissue. The effects depend on the type of
radiation and the size of the dose. Radiation dose (in sieverts) is a
measure of the risk of harm resulting from an exposure of the body
to the radiation.
WS 1.5
1000 millisieverts (mSv) = 1 sievert (Sv)
Students will not be required to recall the unit of radiation dose.
Students should be able to draw conclusions from given data about
the risks and consequences of exposure to radiation.
Ultraviolet waves can cause skin to age prematurely and increase
the risk of skin cancer. X-rays and gamma rays are ionising
radiation that can cause the mutation of genes and cancer.
WS 1.5
4.6.2.4 Uses and applications of electromagnetic waves
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Electromagnetic waves have many practical applications. For
example:
• radio waves – television and radio
• microwaves – satellite communications, cooking food
• infrared – electrical heaters, cooking food, infrared cameras
• visible light – fibre optic communications
• ultraviolet – energy efficient lamps, sun tanning
• X-rays and gamma rays – medical imaging and treatments.
64   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 65 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
(HT only) Students should be able to give brief explanations why
each type of electromagnetic wave is suitable for the practical
application.
(HT only) WS 1.4
4.6.2.5 Lenses (physics only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A lens forms an image by refracting light. In a convex lens, parallel
rays of light are brought to a focus at the principal focus. The
distance from the lens to the principal focus is called the focal
length. Ray diagrams are used to show the formation of images by
convex and concave lenses.
The image produced by a convex lens can be either real or virtual.
The image produced by a concave lens is always virtual.
Students should be able to construct ray diagrams to illustrate the
similarities and differences between convex and concave lenses.
The magnification produced by a lens can be calculated using the
equation:
MS 5a, 5c
WS 1.2
magni f ication =  image height
ob ject height
Magnification is a ratio and so has no units.
Image height and object height should both be measured in either
mm or cm.
In ray diagrams a convex lens will be represented by:
A concave lens will be represented by:
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet.
AT 4, 8
Investigate the
magnification produced by a
range of convex lenses.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   65

=== PDF page 66 ===
4.6.2.6 Visible light (physics only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Each colour within the visible light spectrum has its own narrow
band of wavelength and frequency.
Reflection from a smooth surface in a single direction is called
specular reflection. Reflection from a rough surface causes
scattering: this is called diffuse reflection.
Colour filters work by absorbing certain wavelengths (and colour)
and transmitting other wavelengths (and colour).
The colour of an opaque object is determined by which wavelengths
of light are more strongly reflected. Wavelengths that are not
reflected are absorbed. If all wavelengths are reflected equally the
object appears white. If all wavelengths are absorbed the objects
appears black.
Objects that transmit light are either transparent or translucent.
Students should be able to explain:
• how the colour of an object is related to the differential
absorption, transmission and reflection of different
wavelengths of light by the object
• the effect of viewing objects through filters or the effect on
light of passing through filters
• why an opaque object has a particular colour.
4.6.3 Black body radiation (physics only)
4.6.3.1 Emission and absorption of infrared radiation
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
All bodies (objects), no matter what temperature, emit and absorb
infrared radiation. The hotter the body, the more infrared radiation it
radiates in a given time.
A perfect black body is an object that absorbs all of the radiation
incident on it. A black body does not reflect or transmit any
radiation. Since a good absorber is also a good emitter, a perfect
black body would be the best possible emitter.
66   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 67 ===
4.6.3.2 Perfect black bodies and radiation
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to explain:
• that all bodies (objects) emit radiation
• that the intensity and wavelength distribution of any emission
depends on the temperature of the body.
(HT only) A body at constant temperature is absorbing radiation at
the same rate as it is emitting radiation. The temperature of a body
increases when the body absorbs radiation faster than it emits
radiation.
(HT only) The temperature of the Earth depends on many factors
including: the rates of absorption and emission of radiation,
reflection of radiation into space.
(HT only) Students should be able to explain how the temperature
of a body is related to the balance between incoming radiation
absorbed and radiation emitted, using everyday examples to
illustrate this balance, and the example of the factors which
determine the temperature of the Earth.
(HT only) Students should be able to use information, or draw/
interpret diagrams to show how radiation affects the temperature of
the Earth’s surface and atmosphere.
WS 1.2
4.7 Magnetism and electromagnetism
Electromagnetic effects are used in a wide variety of devices. Engineers make use of the fact that
a magnet moving in a coil can produce electric current and also that when current flows around a
magnet it can produce movement. It means that systems that involve control or communications
can take full advantage of this.
4.7.1 Permanent and induced magnetism, magnetic forces and fields
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   67

=== PDF page 68 ===
4.7.1.1 Poles of a magnet
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The poles of a magnet are the places where the magnetic forces
are strongest. When two magnets are brought close together they
exert a force on each other. Two like poles repel each other. Two
unlike poles attract each other. Attraction and repulsion between
two magnetic poles are examples of non-contact force.
A permanent magnet produces its own magnetic field. An induced
magnet is a material that becomes a magnet when it is placed in a
magnetic field. Induced magnetism always causes a force of
attraction. When removed from the magnetic field an induced
magnet loses most/all of its magnetism quickly.
Students should be able to describe:
• the attraction and repulsion between unlike and like poles for
permanent magnets
• the difference between permanent and induced magnets.
4.7.1.2 Magnetic fields
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The region around a magnet where a force acts on another magnet
or on a magnetic material (iron, steel, cobalt and nickel) is called
the magnetic field.
The force between a magnet and a magnetic material is always one
of attraction.
The strength of the magnetic field depends on the distance from the
magnet. The field is strongest at the poles of the magnet.
The direction of the magnetic field at any point is given by the
direction of the force that would act on another north pole placed at
that point. The direction of a magnetic field line is from the north
(seeking) pole of a magnet to the south(seeking) pole of the
magnet.
A magnetic compass contains a small bar magnet. The Earth has a
magnetic field. The compass needle points in the direction of the
Earth’s magnetic field.
Students should be able to:
• describe how to plot the magnetic field pattern of a magnet
using a compass
• draw the magnetic field pattern of a bar magnet showing how
strength and direction change from one point to another
• explain how the behaviour of a magnetic compass is related
to evidence that the core of the Earth must be magnetic.
WS 2.2
68   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 69 ===
4.7.2 The motor effect
4.7.2.1 Electromagnetism
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When a current flows through a conducting wire a magnetic field is
produced around the wire. The strength of the magnetic field
depends on the current through the wire and the distance from the
wire.
Shaping a wire to form a solenoid increases the strength of the
magnetic field created by a current through the wire. The magnetic
field inside a solenoid is strong and uniform.
The magnetic field around a solenoid has a similar shape to that of
a bar magnet. Adding an iron core increases the strength of the
magnetic field of a solenoid. An electromagnet is a solenoid with an
iron core.
Students should be able to:
• describe how the magnetic effect of a current can be
demonstrated
• draw the magnetic field pattern for a straight wire carrying a
current and for a solenoid (showing the direction of the field)
• explain how a solenoid arrangement can increase the
magnetic effect of the current.
WS 2.2
(Physics only) Students should be able to interpret diagrams of
electromagnetic devices in order to explain how they work.
(Physics only) WS 1.4
4.7.2.2 Fleming's left-hand rule (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When a conductor carrying a current is placed in a magnetic field
the magnet producing the field and the conductor exert a force on
each other. This is called the motor effect.
Students should be able to show that Fleming's left-hand rule
represents the relative orientation of the force, the current in the
conductor and the magnetic field.
Students should be able to recall the factors that affect the size of
the force on the conductor.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   69

=== PDF page 70 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
For a conductor at right angles to a magnetic field and carrying a
current:
f orce = magnetic f lux densit y × current × length 
F  = B I l
force, F, in newtons, N
magnetic flux density, B, in tesla, T
current, I, in amperes, A (amp is acceptable for ampere)
length, l, in metres, m
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the physics
equation sheet.
4.7.2.3 Electric motors (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A coil of wire carrying a current in a magnetic field tends to rotate.
This is the basis of an electric motor.
Students should be able to explain how the force on a conductor in
a magnetic field causes the rotation of the coil in an electric motor.
4.7.2.4 Loudspeakers (physics only) (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Loudspeakers and headphones use the motor effect to convert
variations in current in electrical circuits to the pressure variations in
sound waves.
Students should be able to explain how a moving-coil loudspeaker
and headphones work.
4.7.3 Induced potential, transformers and the National Grid (physics
only) (HT only)
70   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 71 ===
4.7.3.1 Induced potential (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
If an electrical conductor moves relative to a magnetic field or if
there is a change in the magnetic field around a conductor, a
potential difference is induced across the ends of the conductor. If
the conductor is part of a complete circuit, a current is induced in
the conductor. This is called the generator effect.
An induced current generates a magnetic field that opposes the
original change, either the movement of the conductor or the
change in magnetic field.
Students should be able to recall the factors that affect the size of
the induced potential difference/induced current.
Students should be able to recall the factors that affect the direction
of the induced potential difference/induced current.
Students should be able to apply the principles of the generator
effect in a given context.
4.7.3.2 Uses of the generator effect (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The generator effect is used in an alternator to generate ac and in a
dynamo to generate dc.
Students should be able to:
• explain how the generator effect is used in an alternator to
generate ac and in a dynamo to generate dc
• draw/interpret graphs of potential difference generated in the
coil against time.
WS 1.4
4.7.3.3 Microphones (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Microphones use the generator effect to convert the pressure
variations in sound waves into variations in current in electrical
circuits.
Students should be able to explain how a moving-coil microphone
works.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   71

=== PDF page 72 ===
4.7.3.4 Transformers (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A basic transformer consists of a primary coil and a secondary coil
wound on an iron core.
Iron is used as it is easily magnetised.
Knowledge of laminations and eddy currents in the core is not
required.
The ratio of the potential differences across the primary and
secondary coils of a transformer Vp and Vs depends on the ratio of
the number of turns on each coil, np and ns.
vp
vs
=   np
ns
potential difference, Vp and Vs in volts, V
In a step-up transformer Vs > Vp
In a step-down transformer Vs < Vp
If transformers were 100% efficient, the electrical power output
would equal the electrical power input.
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet.
Vs  ×  Is   =  V p  ×  I p
Where Vs × Is is the power output (secondary coil) and Vp × Ip is the
power input (primary coil).
power input and output, in watts, W
Students should be able to:
• explain how the effect of an alternating current in one coil in
inducing a current in another is used in transformers
• explain how the ratio of the potential differences across the
two coils depends on the ratio of the number of turns on each
• calculate the current drawn from the input supply to provide a
particular power output
MS 3b, c
Students should be able to
apply this equation which is
given on the Physics
equation sheet.
• apply the equation linking the p.d.s and number of turns in the
two coils of a transformer to the currents and the power
transfer involved, and relate these to the advantages of power
transmission at high potential differences.
MS 1c, 3b, c
4.8 Space physics (physics only)
Questions about where we are, and where we came from, have been asked for thousands of
years. In the past century, astronomers and astrophysicists have made remarkable progress in
understanding the scale and structure of the universe, its evolution and ours. New questions have
emerged recently. ‘Dark matter’, which bends light and holds galaxies together but does not emit
72   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 73 ===
electromagnetic radiation, is everywhere – what is it? And what is causing the universe to expand
ever faster?
4.8.1 Solar system; stability of orbital motions; satellites (physics only)
4.8.1.1 Our solar system
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Within our solar system there is one star, the Sun, plus the eight
planets and the dwarf planets that orbit around the Sun. Natural
satellites, the moons that orbit planets, are also part of the solar
system.
Our solar system is a small part of the Milky Way galaxy.
The Sun was formed from a cloud of dust and gas (nebula) pulled
together by gravitational attraction.
Students should be able to explain:
• how, at the start of a star's life cycle, the dust and gas drawn
together by gravity causes fusion reactions
• that fusion reactions lead to an equilibrium between the
gravitational collapse of a star and the expansion of a star due
to fusion energy.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   73

=== PDF page 74 ===
4.8.1.2 The life cycle of a star
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A star goes through a life cycle. The life cycle is determined by the
size of the star.
Students should be able to describe the life cycle of a star:
• the size of the Sun
• much more massive than the Sun.
Fusion processes in stars produce all of the naturally occurring
elements. Elements heavier than iron are produced in a supernova.
The explosion of a massive star (supernova) distributes the
elements throughout the universe.
Students should be able to explain how fusion processes lead to
the formation of new elements.
74   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 75 ===
4.8.1.3 Orbital motion, natural and artificial satellites
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Gravity provides the force that allows planets and satellites (both
natural and artificial) to maintain their circular orbits.
Students should be able to describe the similarities and distinctions
between the planets, their moons, and artificial satellites.
(HT only) Students should be able to explain qualitatively how:
• (HT only) for circular orbits, the force of gravity can lead to
changing velocity but unchanged speed
• (HT only) for a stable orbit, the radius must change if the
speed changes.
4.8.2 Red-shift (physics only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
There is an observed increase in the wavelength of light from most
distant galaxies. The further away the galaxies, the faster they are
moving and the bigger the observed increase in wavelength. This
effect is called red-shift.
The observed red-shift provides evidence that space itself (the
universe) is expanding and supports the Big Bang theory.
The Big Bang theory suggests that the universe began from a very
small region that was extremely hot and dense.
Since 1998 onwards, observations of supernovae suggest that
distant galaxies are receding ever faster.
Students should be able to explain:
• qualitatively the red-shift of light from galaxies that are
receding
• that the change of each galaxy’s speed with distance is
evidence of an expanding universe
• how red-shift provides evidence for the Big Bang model
• how scientists are able to use observations to arrive at
theories such as the Big Bang theory
WS 1.2
• that there is still much about the universe that is not
understood, for example dark mass and dark energy.
WS 1.1, 1.3
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   75

=== PDF page 76 ===
4.9 Key ideas
The complex and diverse phenomena of the natural and man-made world can be described in
terms of a small number of key ideas in physics.
These key ideas are of universal application, and we have embedded them throughout the subject
content. They underpin many aspects of the science assessment and will therefore be assessed
across all papers.
Key ideas in physics include:
• the use of models, as in the particle model of matter or the wave models of light and of sound
• the concept of cause and effect in explaining such links as those between force and
acceleration, or between changes in atomic nuclei and radioactive emissions
• the phenomena of ‘action at a distance’ and the related concept of the field as the key to
analysing electrical, magnetic and gravitational effects
• that differences, for example between pressures or temperatures or electrical potentials, are
the drivers of change
• that proportionality, for example between weight and mass of an object or between force and
extension in a spring, is an important aspect of many models in science
• that physical laws and models are expressed in mathematical form.
76   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 77 ===
5 Scheme of assessment
Find past papers and mark schemes, and specimen papers for new courses, on our website at 
aqa.org.uk/pastpapers
This specification is designed to be taken over two years.
This is a linear qualification. In order to achieve the award, students must complete all
assessments at the end of the course and in the same series.
GCSE exams and certification for this specification are available for the first time in May/June 2018
and then every May/June for the life of the specification.
All materials are available in English only.
Our GCSE exams in Physics include questions that allow students to demonstrate:
• their knowledge and understanding of the content developed in one section or topic,
including the associated mathematical and practical skills or
• their ability to apply mathematical and practical skills to areas of content they are not
normally developed in or
• their ability to draw together different areas of knowledge and understanding within one
answer.
A range of question types will be used, including multiple choice, short answer and those that
require extended responses. Extended response questions will be of sufficient length to allow
students to demonstrate their ability to construct and develop a sustained line of reasoning which is
coherent, relevant, substantiated and logically structured. Extended responses may be prose,
extended calculations, or a combination of both, as appropriate to the question.
5.1 Aims and learning outcomes
Physics should be taught in progressively greater depth over the course of Key Stage 3 and Key
Stage 4. GCSE outcomes may reflect or build upon subject content which is typically taught at Key
Stage 3. There is no expectation that teaching of such content should be repeated during the
GCSE course where it has already been covered at an earlier stage.
GCSE study in physics provides the foundations for understanding the material world. Scientific
understanding is changing our lives and is vital to the world’s future prosperity, and all students
should be taught essential aspects of the knowledge, methods, processes and uses of science.
They should be helped to appreciate how the complex and diverse phenomena of the natural world
can be described in terms of a small number of key ideas relating to the sciences which are both
inter-linked, and are of universal application. These key ideas include:
• the use of models, as in the particle model of matter or the wave models of light and of sound
• the concept of cause and effect in explaining such links as those between force and
acceleration, or between changes in atomic nuclei and radioactive emissions
• the phenomena of ‘action at a distance’ and the related concept of the field as the key to
analysing electrical, magnetic and gravitational effects
• that differences, for example between pressures or temperatures or electrical potentials, are
the drivers of change
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   77

=== PDF page 78 ===
• that proportionality, for example between weight and mass of an object or between force and
extension in a spring, is an important aspect of many models in science
• that physical laws and models are expressed in mathematical form.
These key ideas are relevant in different ways and with different emphases in biology, chemistry
and physics: examples of their relevance are given below for physics.
GCSE specifications in Physics should enable students to:
• develop scientific knowledge and conceptual understanding of physics
• develop understanding of the nature, processes and methods of physics
• develop and learn to apply observational, practical, modelling, enquiry and problem-solving
skills, both in the laboratory, in the field and in other learning environments
• develop their ability to evaluate claims based on physics through critical analysis of the
methodology, evidence and conclusions, both qualitatively and quantitatively.
Physics should be studied in ways that help students to develop curiosity about the natural world,
insight into how science works, and appreciation of its relevance to their everyday lives. The scope
and nature of such study should be broad, coherent, practical and satisfying, and thereby
encourage students to be inspired, motivated and challenged by the subject and its achievements.
5.2 Assessment objectives
Assessment objectives (AOs) are set by Ofqual and are the same across all GCSE Physics
specifications and all exam boards.
The exams will measure how students have achieved the following assessment objectives.
• AO1: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of: scientific ideas; scientific techniques
and procedures.
• AO2: Apply knowledge and understanding of: scientific ideas; scientific enquiry, techniques
and procedures.
• AO3: Analyse information and ideas to: interpret and evaluate; make judgments and draw
conclusions; develop and improve experimental procedures.
5.2.1 Assessment objective weightings for GCSE Physics
Assessment objectives (AOs) Component
weightings (approx
%)
Overall weighting
(approx %)
Paper 1 Paper 2
AO1 37‒43 37‒43 40
AO2 37‒43 37‒43 40
AO3 17‒23 17‒23 20
Overall weighting of components 50 50 100
5.3 Assessment weightings
The marks awarded on the papers will be scaled to meet the weighting of the components.
Students’ final marks will be calculated by adding together the scaled marks for each component.
78   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 79 ===
Grade boundaries will be set using this total scaled mark. The scaling and total scaled marks are
shown in the table below.
Component Maximum raw mark Scaling factor Maximum scaled mark
Paper 1 100 x1 100
Paper 2 100 x1 100
Total scaled mark: 200
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   79

=== PDF page 80 ===
80   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 81 ===
6 General administration
You can find information about all aspects of administration, as well as all the forms you need, at 
aqa.org.uk/examsadmin
6.1 Entries and codes
You only need to make one entry for each qualification – this will cover all the question papers,
non-exam assessment and certification.
Every specification is given a national discount (classification) code by the Department for
Education (DfE), which indicates its subject area.
If a student takes two specifications with the same discount code:
• further and higher education providers are likely to take the view that they have only
achieved one of the two qualifications
• only one of them will be counted for the purpose of the School and College Performance
tables – the DfE's rules on 'early entry' will determine which one.
Please check this before your students start their course.
Qualification title Tier AQA entry
code
DfE discount
code
AQA GCSE in Physics Foundation 8463F TBC
Higher 8463H TBC
This specification complies with:
• Ofqual General conditions of recognition that apply to all regulated qualifications
• Ofqual GCSE qualification level conditions that apply to all GCSEs
• Ofqual GCSE subject level conditions that apply to all GCSEs in this subject
• all other relevant regulatory documents.
The Ofqual qualification accreditation number (QAN) is 601/8751/7.
6.2 Overlaps with other qualifications
There are no overlaps with any other AQA qualifications at this level.
6.3 Awarding grades and reporting results
The qualification will be graded on a nine-point scale: 1–9 – where 9 is the best grade.
A student taking Foundation Tier assessments will be awarded a grade within the range of 1 to 5.
Students who fail to reach the minimum standard for grade 1 will be recorded as U (unclassified)
and will not receive a qualification certificate.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   81

=== PDF page 82 ===
A student taking Higher Tier assessments will be awarded a grade within the range of 4 to 9. A
student sitting the Higher Tier who just fails to achieve grade 4 will be awarded an allowed grade 3.
Students who fail to reach the minimum standard for the allowed grade 3 will be recorded as U
(unclassified) and will not receive a qualification certificate.
6.4 Resits and shelf life
Students can resit the qualification as many times as they wish, within the shelf life of the
qualification.
6.5 Previous learning and prerequisites
There are no previous learning requirements. Any requirements for entry to a course based on this
specification are at the discretion of schools and colleges.
6.6 Access to assessment: diversity and inclusion
General qualifications are designed to prepare students for a wide range of occupations and
further study. Therefore our qualifications must assess a wide range of competences.
The subject criteria have been assessed to see if any of the skills or knowledge required present
any possible difficulty to any students, whatever their ethnic background, religion, sex, age,
disability or sexuality. If any difficulties were encountered, the criteria were reviewed again to make
sure that tests of specific competences were only included if they were important to the subject.
As members of the Joint Council for Qualifications (JCQ) we participate in the production of the
JCQ document Access Arrangements and Reasonable Adjustments: General and Vocational
qualifications. We follow these guidelines when assessing the needs of individual students who
may require an access arrangement or reasonable adjustment. This document is published on the
JCQ website at jcq.org.uk
6.6.1 Students with disabilities and special needs
We can make arrangements for disabled students and students with special needs to help them
access the assessments, as long as the competences being tested are not changed. Access
arrangements must be agreed before the assessment. For example, a Braille paper would be a
reasonable adjustment for a Braille reader but not for a student who does not read Braille.
We are required by the Equality Act 2010 to make reasonable adjustments to remove or lessen
any disadvantage that affects a disabled student.
If you have students who need access arrangements or reasonable adjustments, you can apply
using the Access arrangements online service at aqa.org.uk/eaqa
6.6.2 Special consideration
We can give special consideration to students who have been disadvantaged at the time of the
assessment through no fault of their own – for example a temporary illness, injury or serious
problem such as the death of a relative. We can only do this after the assessment.
Your exams officer should apply online for special consideration at aqa.org.uk/eaqa
82   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 83 ===
For more information and advice about access arrangements, reasonable adjustments and special
consideration please see aqa.org.uk/access or email accessarrangementsqueries@aqa.org.uk
6.7 Working with AQA for the first time
If your school or college has not previously offered any AQA specification, you need to register as
an AQA centre to offer our specifications to your students. Find out how at aqa.org.uk/
becomeacentre
6.8 Private candidates
A private candidate is someone who enters for exams through an AQA-approved school or college
but is not enrolled as a student there.
If you are a private candidate you may be self-taught, home-schooled or have private tuition, with a
tutor or distance learning organisation. You must be based in the UK.
All GCSE science students need to complete practical experiments as part of their learning. A
minimum of ten experiments are required for this physics qualification. This equips students with
essential practical knowledge and experiences, enables them to put theory into practice and helps
them develop skills for higher education.
Private candidates wishing to study GCSE sciences need to find a school or college who will let
them carry out the required practicals. Schools and colleges accepting private candidates must
make provision for them to carry out all of the required practical activities as specified in Practical
assessment (page 87). This is likely to incur a cost. We recommend you contact your local
schools and colleges to organise this as early as possible.
Students won’t be assessed whilst conducting their practical work, but the written exam will include
questions on it. Therefore, candidates lacking hands on experience will be at an immediate
disadvantage.
If you have any queries as a private candidate, you can:
• speak to the Exams officer at the school or college where you intend to take your exams
• visit our website at aqa.org.uk/exams-administration
• email: privatecandidates@aqa.org.uk
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   83

=== PDF page 84 ===
84   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 85 ===
7 Mathematical requirements
Students will be required to demonstrate the following mathematics skills in GCSE Physics
assessments.
Questions will target maths skills at a level of demand appropriate to each subject. In Foundation
Tier papers questions assessing maths requirements will not be lower than that expected at Key
Stage 3 (as outlined in Mathematics Programmes of Study: Key Stage 3 by the DfE, document
reference DFE-00179-2013). In Higher Tier papers questions assessing maths requirements will
not be lower than that of questions and tasks in assessments for the Foundation Tier in a GCSE
Qualification in Mathematics.
1 Arithmetic and numerical computation
a Recognise and use expressions in decimal form
b Recognise and use expressions in standard form
c Use ratios, fractions and percentages
d Make estimates of the results of simple calculations
2 Handling data
a Use an appropriate number of significant figures
b Find arithmetic means
c Construct and interpret frequency tables and diagrams, bar charts and histograms
f Understand the terms mean, mode and median
g Use a scatter diagram to identify a correlation between two variables
h Make order of magnitude calculations
3 Algebra
a Understand and use the symbols: =, <, <<, >>, >, ∝ , ~
b Change the subject of an equation
c Substitute numerical values into algebraic equations using appropriate units for physical
quantities
d Solve simple algebraic equations
4 Graphs
a Translate information between graphical and numeric form
b Understand that y = mx + c represents a linear relationship
c Plot two variables from experimental or other data
d Determine the slope and intercept of a linear graph
e Draw and use the slope of a tangent to a curve as a measure of rate of change
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   85

=== PDF page 86 ===
4 Graphs
f Understand the physical significance of area between a curve and the x-axis and measure it
by counting squares as appropriate
5 Geometry and trigonometry
a Use angular measures in degrees
b Visualise and represent 2D and 3D forms including two dimensional representations of 3D
objects
c Calculate areas of triangles and rectangles, surface areas and volumes of cubes
Mathematical skills references are taken from the DfE subject criteria. Where there is a break in a
sequence, the 'missing' references are criteria not applicable to GCSE Physics and have been
deliberately omitted from this list.
86   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 87 ===
8 Practical assessment
Practical work is at the heart of physics, so we have placed it at the heart of this specification.
There are three interconnected, but separate reasons for doing practical work in schools. They are:
1. To support and consolidate scientific concepts (knowledge and understanding).
This is done by applying and developing what is known and understood of abstract ideas and
models. Through practical work we are able to make sense of new information and
observations, and provide insights into the development of scientific thinking.
2. To develop investigative skills. These transferable skills include:
• devising and investigating testable questions
• identifying and controlling variables
• analysing, interpreting and evaluating data.
3. To build and master practical skills such as:
• using specialist equipment to take measurements
• handling and manipulating equipment with confidence and fluency
• recognising hazards and planning how to minimise risk.
By focusing on the reasons for carrying out a particular practical, teachers will help their students
understand the subject better, to develop the skills of a scientist and to master the manipulative
skills required for further study or jobs in STEM subjects.
Questions in the written exams will draw on the knowledge and understanding students have
gained by carrying out the practical activities listed below. These questions will count for at least
15% of the overall marks for the qualification. Many of our questions will also focus on investigative
skills and how well students can apply what they know to practical situations often in novel
contexts.
The practical handbook will help teachers plan purposeful practical work that develops both
practical and investigative skills and encourages the thinking behind the doing so that they can
reach their potential.
Teachers are encouraged to further develop students’ abilities by providing other opportunities for
practical work throughout the course. Opportunities are signposted in the right hand column of the
content section of this specification for further skills development.
Our physics scheme of work will provide ideas and suggestions for good practical activities that are
manageable with large classes.
8.1 Use of apparatus and techniques
All students are expected to have carried out the required practical activities in Required practical
activities (page 88). These develop skills in the use of the following apparatus and techniques.
The following list includes opportunities for choice and use of appropriate laboratory apparatus for
a variety of experimental problem-solving and/or enquiry-based activities.
Safety is an overriding requirement for all practical work. Schools and colleges are responsible for
ensuring that appropriate safety procedures are followed whenever their students undertake
practical work, and should undertake full risk assessments.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   87

=== PDF page 88 ===
Use and production of appropriate scientific diagrams to set up and record apparatus and
procedures used in practical work is common to all science subjects and should be included
wherever appropriate.
AT 1‒7 are common with combined science. AT 8 is physics only.
Apparatus and techniques
AT 1 Use of appropriate apparatus to make and record a range of measurements accurately,
including length, area, mass, time, volume and temperature. Use of such
measurements to determine densities of solid and liquid objects (links to A-level AT a
and b).
AT 2 Use of appropriate apparatus to measure and observe the effects of forces including
the extension of springs (links to A-level AT a).
AT 3 Use of appropriate apparatus and techniques for measuring motion, including
determination of speed and rate of change of speed (acceleration/deceleration) (links
to A-level AT a, b and d).
AT 4 Making observations of waves in fluids and solids to identify the suitability of apparatus
to measure speed/frequency/wavelength. Making observations of the effects of the
interaction of electromagnetic waves with matter (links to A-level AT i and j).
AT 5 Safe use of appropriate apparatus in a range of contexts to measure energy changes/
transfers and associated values such as work done (links to A-level AT a, b).
AT6 Use of appropriate apparatus to measure current, potential difference (voltage) and
resistance, and to explore the characteristics of a variety of circuit elements (links to A-
level AT f).
AT 7 Use of circuit diagrams to construct and check series and parallel circuits including a
variety of common circuit elements (links to A-level AT g).
AT 8
(physics
only)
Making observations of waves in fluids and solids to identify the suitability of apparatus
to measure the effects of the interaction of waves with matter (links to A-level AT h, j).
8.2 Required practical activities
The following practical activities must be carried out by all students taking GCSE Physics.
Following any revision by the Secretary of State of the apparatus or techniques specified, we will
review and revise the required practical activities as appropriate.
Schools and colleges will be informed of any changes in a timely manner and the amended
specification will be published, highlighting the changes accordingly.
Teachers are encouraged to vary their approach to these practical activities. Some are more
suitable for highly structured approaches that develop key techniques while others allow
opportunities for students to develop investigative approaches.
This list is not designed to limit the practical activities carried out by students. A rich practical
experience will include more than the ten required practical activities. The explicit teaching of
practical skills will build students’ competence. Many teachers will also use practical approaches to
introduce content knowledge in the course of their normal teaching.
88   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 89 ===
Schools and colleges are required to provide a practical science statement to AQA, that is a true
and accurate written statement, which confirms that it has taken reasonable steps to secure that
each student has:
• completed the required practical activities detailed in this specification
• made a contemporaneous record of such work undertaken during the activities and the
knowledge, skills and understanding derived from those activities.
We will provide a form for the head of centre to sign. You must submit the form to us by the date
published at aqa.org.uk/science. We will contact schools and colleges directly with the deadline
date and timely reminders if the form is not received. Failure to send this form counts as
malpractice/maladministration, and may result in formal action or warning for the school or college.
Practicals 1, 3‒8 and 10 are common with GCSE Combined Science: Trilogy and GCSE
Combined Science: Synergy. Practicals 2 and 9 are GCSE Physics only.
8.2.1 Required practical activity 1
An investigation to determine the specific heat capacity of one or more materials. The investigation
will involve linking the decrease of one energy store (or work done) to the increase in temperature
and subsequent increase in thermal energy stored.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to make and record measurements of mass, time and
temperature accurately.
AT 5 – use, in a safe manner, appropriate apparatus to measure energy changes/transfers and
associated values such as work done.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 2.7 – evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
WS 3.1 – present observations and other data using appropriate methods.
WS 3.2 – translate data from one form to another.
WS 3.3 – carry out and represent mathematical and statistical analysis.
WS 3.4 – represent the distribution of results and make estimations of uncertainty.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   89

=== PDF page 90 ===
WS 3.5 – interpret observations and other data (presented in verbal, diagrammatic, graphical,
symbolic or numerical form), including identifying patterns and trends, making inferences and
drawing conclusions.
WS 3.6 – present reasoned explanations including relating data to hypotheses.
WS 3.7 – be objective, evaluate data in terms of accuracy, precision, repeatability and
reproducibility and identify potential sources of random and systematic error.
WS 3.8 – communicate the scientific rationale for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through written and electronic reports and presentations using verbal,
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic forms.
WS 4.2 – recognise the importance of scientific quantities and understand how they are
determined.
WS 4.3 – use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm; kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature unless
inappropriate.
WS 4.6 – use an appropriate number of significant figures in calculation.
MS 2a – use an appropriate number of significant figures.
MS 2b – find arithmetic means.
MS 3b – change the subject of an equation.
MS 3c – substitute numerical values into algebraic equations using appropriate units for physical
quantities.
8.2.2 Required practical activity 2 (physics only)
Investigate the effectiveness of different materials as thermal insulators and the factors that may
affect the thermal insulation properties of a material.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to make and record a range of measurements accurately,
including length, area, mass, time, volume and temperature.
AT 5 – use, in a safe manner, appropriate apparatus to measure energy changes/transfers.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 1.2 – use a variety of models such as representational, spatial, descriptive, computational and
mathematical to solve problems, make predictions and to develop scientific explanations and
understanding of familiar and unfamiliar facts.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
90   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 91 ===
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 2.7 – evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
WS 3.1 – present observations and other data using appropriate methods.
WS 3.3 – carry out and represent mathematical and statistical analysis.
WS 3.4 – represent the distribution of results and make estimations of uncertainty.
WS 3.5 – interpret observations and other data (presented in verbal, diagrammatic, graphical,
symbolic or numerical form), including identifying patterns and trends, making inferences and
drawing conclusions.
WS 3.6 – present reasoned explanations including relating data to hypotheses.
WS 3.8 – communicate the scientific rationale for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through written and electronic reports and presentations using verbal,
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic forms.
WS 4.2 – recognise the importance of scientific quantities and understand how they are
determined.
WS 4.3 – use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm; kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature unless
inappropriate.
WS 4.6 – use an appropriate number of significant figures in calculation.
MS 2a – use an appropriate number of significant figures.
MS 2c – construct and interpret frequency tables and diagrams, bar charts and histograms.
MS 4c – plot two variables from experimental or other data.
MS 5c – calculate areas of triangles and rectangles, surface areas and volumes of cubes.
8.2.3 Required practical activity 3
Use circuit diagrams to set up and check appropriate circuits to investigate the factors affecting the
resistance of electrical circuits. This should include:
• the length of a wire at constant temperature
• combinations of resistors in series and parallel.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to measure and record length accurately.
AT 6 – use appropriate apparatus to measure current, potential difference and resistance.
AT 7 – use circuit diagrams to construct and check series and parallel circuits.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   91

=== PDF page 92 ===
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.5 – recognise when to apply a knowledge of sampling techniques to ensure any samples
collected are representative.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 2.7 – evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
WS 3.1 – present observations and other data using appropriate methods.
WS 3.2 – translate data from one form to another.
WS 3.3 – carry out and represent mathematical and statistical analysis.
WS 3.4 – represent the distribution of results and make estimations of uncertainty.
WS 3.5 – interpret observations and other data (presented in verbal, diagrammatic, graphical,
symbolic or numerical form), including identifying patterns and trends, making inferences and
drawing conclusions.
WS 3.6 – present reasoned explanations including relating data to hypotheses.
WS 3.7 – be objective, evaluate data in terms of accuracy, precision, repeatability and
reproducibility and identify potential sources of random and systematic error.
WS 3.8 – communicate the scientific rationale for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through written and electronic reports and presentations using verbal,
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic forms.
WS 4.2 – recognise the importance of scientific quantities and understand how they are
determined.
WS 4.3 – use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm; kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature unless
inappropriate.
WS 4.6 – use an appropriate number of significant figures in calculation.
MS 2a – use an appropriate number of significant figures.
MS 2b – find arithmetic means.
MS 4b – understand that y = mx + c represents a linear relationship.
MS 4c – plot two variables from experimental or other data.
MS 4d – determine the slope and intercept of a linear graph.
8.2.4 Required practical activity 4
Use circuit diagrams to construct appropriate circuits to investigate the I–V characteristics of a
variety of circuit elements including a filament lamp, a diode and a resistor at constant
temperature.
8.2.4.1 Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
92   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 93 ===
AT 6 – use appropriate apparatus to measure current and potential difference and to explore the
characteristics of a variety of circuit elements.
AT 7 – use circuit diagrams to construct and check series and parallel circuits including a variety of
common circuit elements.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.5 – recognise when to apply a knowledge of sampling techniques to ensure any samples
collected are representative.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 2.7 – evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
WS 3.1 – present observations and other data using appropriate methods.
WS 3.2 – translate data from one form to another.
WS 3.3 – carry out and represent mathematical and statistical analysis.
WS 3.4 – represent the distribution of results and make estimations of uncertainty.
WS 3.5 – interpret observations and other data (presented in verbal, diagrammatic, graphical,
symbolic or numerical form), including identifying patterns and trends, making inferences and
drawing conclusions.
WS 3.6 – present reasoned explanations including relating data to hypotheses.
WS 3.7 – be objective, evaluate data in terms of accuracy, precision, repeatability and
reproducibility and identify potential sources of random and systematic error.
WS 3.8 – communicate the scientific rationale for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through written and electronic reports and presentations using verbal,
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic forms.
WS 4.2 – recognise the importance of scientific quantities and understand how they are
determined.
WS 4.3 – use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm; kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature unless
inappropriate.
WS 4.6 – use an appropriate number of significant figures in calculation.
MS 2a – use an appropriate number of significant figures.
MS 2g – use a scatter diagram to identify a correlation between two variables.
MS 4b – understand that y = mx + c represents a linear relationship.
MS 4c – plot two variables from experimental or other data.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   93

=== PDF page 94 ===
8.2.5 Required practical activity 5
Use appropriate apparatus to make and record the measurements needed to determine the
densities of regular and irregular solid objects and liquids. Volume should be determined from the
dimensions of a regularly shaped object and by a displacement technique for irregularly shaped
objects. Dimensions to be measured using appropriate apparatus such as a ruler, micrometer or
Vernier callipers.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to make and record measurements of length, area, mass and
volume accurately. Use such measurements to determine the density of solid objects and liquids.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 1.2 – use a variety of models such as representational, spatial, descriptive, computational and
mathematical to solve problems, make predictions and to develop scientific explanations and
understanding of familiar and unfamiliar facts.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 2.7 – evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
WS 3.1 – present observations and other data using appropriate methods.
WS 3.5 – interpret observations and other data (presented in verbal, diagrammatic, graphical,
symbolic or numerical form), including identifying patterns and trends, making inferences and
drawing conclusions.
WS 3.8 – communicate the scientific rationale for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through written and electronic reports and presentations using verbal,
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic forms.
WS 4.2 – recognise the importance of scientific quantities and understand how they are
determined.
WS 4.3 – use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm; kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature unless
inappropriate.
WS 4.6 – use an appropriate number of significant figures in calculation.
MS 2a – use an appropriate number of significant figures.
MS 2b – find arithmetic means.
94   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 95 ===
MS 5c – calculate areas of triangles and rectangles, surface areas and volumes of cubes.
8.2.6 Required practical activity 6
Investigate the relationship between force and extension for a spring.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to make and record length accurately.
AT 2 – use appropriate apparatus to measure and observe the effect of force on the extension of
springs and collect the data required to plot a force-extension graph.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 3.1 – present observations and other data using appropriate methods.
WS 3.2 – translate data from one form to another.
WS 3.3 – carry out and represent mathematical and statistical analysis.
WS 3.5 – interpret observations and other data (presented in verbal, diagrammatic, graphical,
symbolic or numerical form), including identifying patterns and trends, making inferences and
drawing conclusions.
WS 3.8 – communicate the scientific rationale for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through written and electronic reports and presentations using verbal,
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic forms.
WS 4.6 – use an appropriate number of significant figures in calculation.
MS 2a – use an appropriate number of significant figures.
MS 2b – find arithmetic means.
MS 4a – translate information between graphical and numeric form.
MS 4b – understand that y = mx + c represents a linear relationship.
MS 4c – plot two variables from experimental or other data.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   95

=== PDF page 96 ===
8.2.7 Required practical activity 7
Investigate the effect of varying the force on the acceleration of an object of constant mass and the
effect of varying the mass of an object on the acceleration produced by a constant force.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to make and record measurements of length, mass and time
accurately.
AT 2 – use appropriate apparatus to measure and observe the effect of force.
AT 3 – use appropriate apparatus and techniques for measuring motion, including determination of
speed and rate of change of speed (acceleration/deceleration).
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 2.7 – evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
WS 3.1 – present observations and other data using appropriate methods.
WS 3.2 – translate data from one form to another.
WS 3.3 – carry out and represent mathematical and statistical analysis.
WS 3.4 – represent the distribution of results and make estimations of uncertainty.
WS 3.5 – interpret observations and other data (presented in verbal, diagrammatic, graphical,
symbolic or numerical form), including identifying patterns and trends, making inferences and
drawing conclusions.
WS 3.6 – present reasoned explanations including relating data to hypotheses.
WS 3.7 – be objective, evaluate data in terms of accuracy, precision, repeatability and
reproducibility and identify potential sources of random and systematic error.
WS 3.8 – communicate the scientific rationale for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through written and electronic reports and presentations using verbal,
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic forms.
WS 4.2 – recognise the importance of scientific quantities and understand how they are
determined.
96   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 97 ===
WS 4.3 – use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm; kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature unless
inappropriate.
WS 4.6 – use an appropriate number of significant figures in calculation.
MS 2a – use an appropriate number of significant figures.
MS 2b – find arithmetic means.
MS 2g – use a scatter diagram to identify a correlation between two variables.
MS 4a – translate information between graphical and numeric form.
MS 4b – understand that y = mx + c represents a linear relationship.
MS 4c – plot two variables from experimental or other data.
8.2.8 Required practical activity 8
Make observations to identify the suitability of apparatus to measure the frequency, wavelength
and speed of waves in a ripple tank and waves in a solid and take appropriate measurements.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 4 – make observations of waves in fluids and solids to identify the suitability of apparatus to
measure speed, frequency and wavelength.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 3.8 – communicate the scientific rationale for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through written and electronic reports and presentations using verbal,
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic forms.
WS 4.2 – recognise the importance of scientific quantities and understand how they are
determined.
WS 4.3 – use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm; kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature unless
inappropriate.
8.2.9 Required practical activity 9 (physics only)
Investigate the reflection of light by different types of surface and the refraction of light by different
substances.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 4 – make observations of the effects of the interaction of electromagnetic waves (light) with
matter.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   97

=== PDF page 98 ===
AT 8 – make observations of waves in fluids and solids to identify the suitability of apparatus to
measure the effects of the interaction of waves with matter.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.7 – evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
WS 3.1 – present observations and other data using appropriate methods.
WS 3.4 – represent the distribution of results and make estimations of uncertainty.
WS 3.6 – present reasoned explanations including relating data to hypotheses.
WS 3.8 – communicate the scientific rationale for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through written and electronic reports and presentations using verbal,
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic forms.
WS 4.2 – recognise the importance of scientific quantities and understand how they are
determined.
WS 4.3 – use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm; kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature unless
inappropriate.
MS 2g – use a scatter diagram to identify a correlation between two variables.
MS 4c – plot two variables from experimental or other data.
MS 5a – use angular measures in degrees.
MS 5b – visualise and represent 2D and 3D forms including two dimensional representations of 3D
objects.
8.2.10 Required practical activity 10
Investigate how the amount of infrared radiation absorbed or radiated by a surface depends on the
nature of that surface.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to make and record temperature accurately.
AT 4 – make observations of the effects of the interaction of electromagnetic waves with matter.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
98   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 99 ===
WS 3.8 – communicate the scientific rationale for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through written and electronic reports and presentations using verbal,
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic forms.
WS 4.2 – recognise the importance of scientific quantities and understand how they are
determined.
WS 4.3 – use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm; kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature unless
inappropriate.
WS 4.6 – use an appropriate number of significant figures in calculation.
MS 2c – construct and interpret frequency tables and diagrams, bar charts and histograms.
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   99

=== PDF page 100 ===
100   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 101 ===
9 Appendix A: Physics
equations
In solving quantitative problems, students should be able to recall and apply the following
equations, using standard SI units.
Equations required for Higher Tier papers only are indicated by HT in the left hand column.
Equatio
n
number
Word equation Symbol
equation
1 weight = mass × gravitational field strength g W = m g
2 work done = force × distance along the line of action of the force W = F s
3 force applied to a spring = spring constant ×  extension F = k e
4 moment of a force = force × distance normal to direction of force M = F d
5 pressure = force normal to a surface
area of that surface p =  F
A
6 distance travelled = speed × time s=v t
7 acceleration = change in velocity 
time taken a =  ∆ v
t
8 resultant force = mass × acceleration F = m a
9 HT momentum = mass × velocity p = m v
10 kinetic energy = 0.5 × mass × speed 2 Ek =  1
2m v2
11 gravitational potential energy = mass  × gravitational field strength g
× height
Ep = m g h
12 power =  energy transferred
time P =  E
t
13 power =  work done
time P =  W
t
14 efficiency =  useful output energy transfer
total input energy transfer
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   101

=== PDF page 102 ===
Equatio
n
number
Word equation Symbol
equation
15 efficiency =  useful power output
total power input
16 wave speed = frequency × wavelength v = f  λ
17 charge flow = current × time Q = I t
18 potential difference = current × resistance V = I R
19 power = potential difference × current P = V I
20 power = current 2 × resistance P = I2 R
21 energy transferred = power × time E = P t
22 energy transferred = charge flow × potential difference E = Q V
23 density =  mass
volume ρ= mV
Students should be able to select and apply the following equations from the Physics equation
sheet.
Equations required for Higher Tier papers only are indicated by HT in the left hand column.
Equatio
n
number
Word equation Symbol
equation
1 HT pressure due to a column of liquid = height of column 
× density of liquid × gravitational field strength g
p = h ρ g
2 final velocity 2 – initial velocity 2 = 2 × acceleration × distance v2 – u2
= 2 a s
3 HT force =  change in momentum
time taken F =  m ∆ v
∆ t
4 elastic potential energy = 0.5 × spring constant × extension 2 Ee =  1
2 k e2
5 change in thermal energy = mass × specific heat capacity 
× temperature change
∆ E = m c ∆ θ
6 period =  1
frequency
7 magnification =  image height
object height
102   Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 103 ===
Equatio
n
number
Word equation Symbol
equation
8 HT force on a conductor at right angles to a magnetic field
 carrying a current = magnetic flux density × current × length
F = B I l
9 thermal energy for a change of state = mass × specific latent heat E = m L
10 HT potential difference across primary coil
potential difference across secondary coil = number of turns in primary coil 
number of turns in secondary coil
V p
V s
=  np
ns
11 HT potential difference across primary coil × current in primary coil
= potential difference across secondary coil 
× current in secondary coil
V p I p = V s Is
12 For gases: pressure × volume = constant p V
= constant
AQA GCSE Physics 8463. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.1 30 September 2019
Visit aqa.org.uk/8463 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   103

=== PDF page 104 ===
Get help and support
Visit our website for information, guidance, support and resources at aqa.org.uk/8463
You can talk directly to the Physics subject team:
E: gcsescience@aqa.org.uk
T: 01483 477 756
aqa.org.uk
Copyright © 2019 AQA and its licensors. All rights reserved.
AQA retains the copyright on all its publications, including the specifications. However, schools and colleges registered with AQA are
permitted to copy material from this specification for their own internal use.
AQA Education (AQA) is a registered charity (number 1073334) and a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales
(company number 3644723). Our registered address is AQA, Devas Street, Manchester M15 6EX.