=== PDF page 1 ===
GCSE
CHEMISTRY
(8462)
Specification
For teaching from September 2016 onwards
For GCSE exams in 2018 onwards
Version 1.2 16 January 2026


=== PDF page 2 ===


=== PDF page 3 ===
Contents
1 Introduction 5
1.1 Why choose AQA for GCSE Chemistry 5
1.2 Support and resources to help you teach 6
2 Specification at a glance 9
2.1 Subject content 9
2.2 Assessments 9
3 Working scientifically 11
4 Subject content 17
4.1 Atomic structure and the periodic table 17
4.2 Bonding, structure, and the properties of matter 26
4.3 Quantitative chemistry 36
4.4 Chemical changes 43
4.5 Energy changes 51
4.6 The rate and extent of chemical change 55
4.7 Organic chemistry 61
4.8 Chemical analysis 70
4.9 Chemistry of the atmosphere 75
4.10 Using resources 80
4.11 Key ideas 89
5 Scheme of assessment 91
5.1 Aims and learning outcomes 91
5.2 Assessment objectives 92
5.3 Assessment weightings 93
6 General administration 95
6.1 Entries and codes 95
6.2 Overlaps with other qualifications 95
6.3 Awarding grades and reporting results 95
6.4 Resits and shelf life 96
6.5 Previous learning and prerequisites 96
6.6 Access to assessment: diversity and inclusion 96
6.7 Working with AQA for the first time 97
6.8 Private candidates 97
7 Mathematical requirements 99
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   3

=== PDF page 4 ===
8 Practical assessment 101
8.1 Use of apparatus and techniques 101
8.2 Required practical activities 102
9 Appendix A: periodic table 109
Are you using the latest version of this specification?
• You will always find the most up-to-date version of this specification on our website at
aqa.org.uk/8462
• We will write to you if there are significant changes to the specification.
4   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 5 ===
1 Introduction
1.1 Why choose AQA for GCSE Chemistry
Our philosophy: science for all
We believe that science has something to offer every student. That’s why we have a suite of
science qualifications for Key Stage 4 – to suit students of all abilities and all aspirations.
You'll see that our GCSE Chemistry, along with Biology and Physics, is a clear straightforward
specification, with clear straightforward exams, so all your students can realise their potential.
Our specification has been developed with teachers
We’ve involved over a thousand teachers in developing our specification, exams and resources.
So you can be confident that our GCSE Chemistry is relevant and interesting to teach and to learn.
We’ve ensured that:
• the subject content is presented clearly, in a logical teaching order. We’ve also given
teaching guidance and signposted opportunities for skills development throughout the
specification
• the subject content and required practicals in our GCSE Combined Science:Trilogy are also
in our GCSE Biology, Chemistry and Physics. So you have the flexibility to co-teach or to
move your students between courses
• all our science qualifications provide opportunities for progression. Our GCSE includes
progression in the subject content and consistency in the exam questions, so that your
students have the best preparation for A-level.
Our practicals have been trialled by teachers
There’s no better way to learn about science than through purposeful practical activities as part of
day-to-day teaching and learning. Our eight required practicals:
• are clearly laid out in the specification, so you know exactly what’s required
• are deliberately open, so you can teach in the way that suits you and your students
• have already been trialled in schools.
You’ll find even more support and guidance in our practical handbook, which includes
recommendations and advice from teachers in the trial.
Straightforward exams, so students can give straightforward answers
We’ve improved our question papers. You’ll find that our exams:
• use more straightforward language and fewer words so they’re easier to understand
• have fewer contexts so students don’t get confused
• have questions that increase in difficulty so students feel confident
• have been written with our GCSE Maths and A-level science teams, so students have
consistency between content and questions.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   5

=== PDF page 6 ===
Over 3,000 students have sat our specimen question papers and they agree that they’re clearer
and more straightforward than ever.
We don’t profit from education – you do
We are an educational charity focused on the needs of teachers and students. This means that we
spend our income on improving the quality of our specifications, exams, resources and support.
You can find out all about our Science qualifications at aqa.org.uk/science
1.2 Support and resources to help you teach
We’ve worked with experienced teachers to provide you with a range of resources that will help
you confidently plan, teach and prepare for exams.
Teaching resources
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 to see all our teaching resources. They include:
• additional practice papers to help students prepare for exams
• schemes of work, written by experienced teachers
• a practical handbook, including recommendations and advice from teachers who’ve trialled
our practicals
• AQA-approved textbooks reviewed by experienced senior examiners
• subject expertise courses for all teachers, from newly qualified teachers who are just getting
started to experienced teachers looking for fresh inspiration.
Preparing for exams
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for everything you need to prepare for our exams, including:
• past papers, mark schemes and examiners’ reports
• sample papers and mark schemes for new courses
• Exampro: a searchable bank of past AQA exam questions
• example student answers with examiner commentaries.
Analyse your students' results with Data Insights
We’ve replaced Enhanced Results Analysis (ERA) with a new platform – Data Insights. It does the
same things as ERA – and more. Find out which questions were the most challenging, how the
results compare to previous years and where your students need to improve. Data Insights, our
free online results analysis tool, will help you see where to focus your teaching. Find out more at 
aqa.org.uk/data-insights
For information about results, including maintaining standards over time, grade boundaries and our
post-results services, visit aqa.org.uk/results
6   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 7 ===
Keep your skills up-to-date with professional development
Time in the classroom is precious, but we understand that as your career develops, the skills and
knowledge you need may change. As well as subject-specific training, we offer a range of courses
to help boost your skills.
• Feedback sessions to understand how students have performed in this year’s exams.
• Virtual communities where you can chat to teachers in your subject area about what’s
important to you.
This is just the start . Our events calendar is full of different ways for you to learn, understand and
be inspired. Find out more at aqa.org.uk/professional-development.
Help and support available
Visit our website for information, guidance, support and resources at aqa.org.uk/8462
If you'd like us to share news and information about this qualification, sign up for emails and
updates at aqa.org.uk/keepinformed
Alternatively, you can call or email our subject team direct.
E: gcsescience@aqa.org.uk
T: 01483 477 756
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   7

=== PDF page 8 ===
8   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 9 ===
2 Specification at a glance
This qualification is linear. Linear means that students will sit all their exams at the end of the
course.
2.1 Subject content
1. Atomic structure and the periodic table (page 17)
2. Bonding, structure, and the properties of matter (page 26)
3. Quantitative chemistry (page 36)
4. Chemical changes (page 43)
5. Energy changes (page 51)
6. The rate and extent of chemical change (page 55)
7. Organic chemistry (page 61)
8. Chemical analysis (page 70)
9. Chemistry of the atmosphere (page 75)
10. Using resources (page 80)
11. Key ideas (page 89)
2.2 Assessments
Paper 1:
What's assessed
Topics 1–5: Atomic structure and the periodic table; Bonding, structure, and the properties of
matter; Quantitative chemistry, Chemical changes; and Energy changes.
How it's assessed
• Written exam: 1 hour 45 minutes
• Foundation and Higher Tier
• 100 marks
• 50% of GCSE
Questions
Multiple choice, structured, closed short answer and open response.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   9

=== PDF page 10 ===
Paper 2:
What's assessed
Topics 6–10: The rate and extent of chemical change; Organic chemistry; Chemical analysis,
Chemistry of the atmosphere; and Using resources.
Questions in Paper 2 may draw on fundamental concepts and principles from sections 4.1 to 4.3.
How it's assessed
• Written exam: 1 hour 45 minutes
• Foundation and Higher Tier
• 100 marks
• 50% of GCSE
Questions
Multiple choice, structured, closed short answer and open response.
10   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 11 ===
3 Working scientifically
Science is a set of ideas about the material world. We have included all the parts of what good
science is at GCSE level: whether it be investigating, observing, experimenting or testing out ideas
and thinking about them. The way scientific ideas flow through the specification will support you in
building a deep understanding of science with your students. We know this will involve talking
about, reading and writing about science plus the actual doing, as well as representing science in
its many forms both mathematically and visually through models.
This specification encourages the development of knowledge and understanding in science
through opportunities for working scientifically. Working scientifically is the sum of all the activities
that scientists do. We feel it is so important that we have woven it throughout our specification and
written papers.
Our schemes of work will take this further for you and signpost a range of ways to navigate through
this qualification so your students are engaged and enthused. These free resources support the
use of mathematics as a tool for thinking through the use of mathematical language in
explanations, applications and evaluations.
The tables below show examples of the ways working scientifically could be assessed.
1 Development of scientific thinking
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 1.1 Understand how scientific methods and
theories develop over time.
Give examples to show how scientific methods
and theories have changed over time.
Explain, with an example, why new data from
experiments or observations led to changes in
models or theories.
Decide whether or not given data supports a
particular theory.
WS 1.2 Use a variety of models such as
representational, spatial, descriptive,
computational and mathematical to solve
problems, make predictions and to develop
scientific explanations and understanding of
familiar and unfamiliar facts.
Recognise/draw/interpret diagrams.
Translate from data to a representation with a
model.
Use models in explanations, or match features
of a model to the data from experiments or
observations that the model describes or
explains.
Make predictions or calculate quantities based
on the model or show its limitations.
Give examples of ways in which a model can
be tested by observation or experiment.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   11

=== PDF page 12 ===
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 1.3 Appreciate the power and limitations of
science and consider any ethical issues which
may arise.
Explain why data is needed to answer scientific
questions, and why it may be uncertain,
incomplete or not available.
Outline a simple ethical argument about the
rights and wrongs of a new technology.
WS 1.4 Explain everyday and technological
applications of science; evaluate associated
personal, social, economic and environmental
implications; and make decisions based on the
evaluation of evidence and arguments.
Describe and explain specified examples of the
technological applications of science.
Describe and evaluate, with the help of data,
methods that can be used to tackle problems
caused by human impacts on the environment.
WS 1.5 Evaluate risks both in practical science
and the wider societal context, including
perception of risk in relation to data and
consequences.
Give examples to show that there are hazards
associated with science-based technologies
which have to be considered alongside the
benefits.
Suggest reasons why the perception of risk is
often very different from the measured risk (eg
voluntary vs imposed risks, familiar vs
unfamiliar risks, visible vs invisible hazards).
WS 1.6 Recognise the importance of peer
review of results and of communicating results
to a range of audiences.
Explain that the process of peer review helps to
detect false claims and to establish a
consensus about which claims should be
regarded as valid.
Explain that reports of scientific developments
in the popular media are not subject to peer
review and may be oversimplified, inaccurate or
biased.
2 Experimental skills and strategies
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 2.1 Use scientific theories and explanations
to develop hypotheses.
Suggest a hypothesis to explain given
observations or data.
12   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 13 ===
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 2.2 Plan experiments or devise procedures
to make observations, produce or characterise
a substance, test hypotheses, check data or
explore phenomena.
Describe a practical procedure for a specified
purpose.
Explain why a given practical procedure is well
designed for its specified purpose.
Explain the need to manipulate and control
variables.
Identify in a given context:
• the independent variable as the one that
is changed or selected by the investigator
• the dependent variable that is measured
for each change in the independent
variable
• control variables and be able to explain
why they are kept the same.
Apply understanding of apparatus and
techniques to suggest a procedure for a
specified purpose.
WS 2.3 Apply a knowledge of a range of
techniques, instruments, apparatus, and
materials to select those appropriate to the
experiment.
Describe/suggest/select the technique,
instrument, apparatus or material that should be
used for a particular purpose, and explain why.
WS 2.4 Carry out experiments appropriately
having due regard for the correct manipulation
of apparatus, the accuracy of measurements
and health and safety considerations.
Identify the main hazards in specified practical
contexts.
Suggest methods of reducing the risk of harm in
practical contexts.
WS 2.5 Recognise when to apply a knowledge
of sampling techniques to ensure any samples
collected are representative.
Suggest and describe an appropriate sampling
technique in a given context.
WS 2.6 Make and record observations and
measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
Read measurements off a scale in a practical
context and record appropriately.
WS 2.7 Evaluate methods and suggest possible
improvements and further investigations.
Assess whether sufficient, precise
measurements have been taken in an
experiment.
Evaluate methods with a view to determining
whether or not they are valid.
3 Analysis and evaluation
Apply the cycle of collecting, presenting and analysing data, including:
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   13

=== PDF page 14 ===
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 3.1 Presenting observations and other data
using appropriate methods.
Construct and interpret frequency tables and
diagrams, bar charts and histograms.
Plot two variables from experimental or other
data.
WS 3.2 Translating data from one form to
another.
Translate data between graphical and numeric
form.
WS 3.3 Carrying out and represent
mathematical and statistical analysis.
For example:
• use an appropriate number of significant
figures
• find the arithmetic mean and range of a
set of data
• construct and interpret frequency tables
and diagrams, bar charts and histograms
• make order of magnitude calculations
• change the subject of an equation
• substitute numerical values into algebraic
equations using appropriate units for
physical quantities
• determine the slope and intercept of a
linear graph
• draw and use the slope of a tangent to a
curve as a measure of rate of change
• understand the physical significance of
area between a curve and the x-axis and
measure it by counting squares as
appropriate.
WS 3.4 Representing distributions of results
and make estimations of uncertainty.
Apply the idea that whenever a measurement is
made, there is always some uncertainty about
the result obtained.
Use the range of a set of measurements about
the mean as a measure of uncertainty.
WS 3.5 Interpreting observations and other
data (presented in verbal, diagrammatic,
graphical, symbolic or numerical form),
including identifying patterns and trends,
making inferences and drawing conclusions.
Use data to make predictions.
Recognise or describe patterns and trends in
data presented in a variety of tabular, graphical
and other forms.
Draw conclusions from given observations.
WS 3.6 Presenting reasoned explanations
including relating data to hypotheses.
Comment on the extent to which data is
consistent with a given hypothesis.
Identify which of two or more hypotheses
provides a better explanation of data in a given
context.
14   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 15 ===
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 3.7 Being objective, evaluating data in
terms of accuracy, precision, repeatability and
reproducibility and identifying potential sources
of random and systematic error.
Apply the following ideas to evaluate data to
suggest improvements to procedures and
techniques.
• An accurate measurement is one that is
close to the true value.
• Measurements are precise if they cluster
closely.
• Measurements are repeatable when
repetition, under the same conditions by
the same investigator, gives similar
results.
• Measurements are reproducible if similar
results are obtained by different
investigators with different equipment.
• Measurements are affected by random
error due to results varying in
unpredictable ways; these errors can be
reduced by making more measurements
and reporting a mean value.
• Systematic error is due to measurement
results differing from the true value by a
consistent amount each time.
• Any anomalous values should be
examined to try to identify the cause and,
if a product of a poor measurement,
ignored.
WS 3.8 Communicating the scientific rationale
for investigations, methods used, findings and
reasoned conclusions through paper-based and
electronic reports and presentations using
verbal, diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and
symbolic forms.
Present coherent and logically structured
responses, using the ideas in 2 Experimental
skills and strategies and 3 Analysis and
evaluation, applied to the required practicals,
and other practical investigations given
appropriate information.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   15

=== PDF page 16 ===
4 Scientific vocabulary, quantities, units, symbols and
nomenclature
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to
do in an exam
WS 4.1 Use scientific vocabulary, terminology
and definitions.
WS 4.2 Recognise the importance of scientific
quantities and understand how they are
determined.
WS 4.3 Use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm;
kJ, J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature
unless inappropriate.
WS 4.4 Use prefixes and powers of ten for
orders of magnitude (eg tera, giga, mega, kilo,
centi, milli, micro and nano).
WS 4.5 Interconvert units.
WS 4.6 Use an appropriate number of
significant figures in calculation.
The knowledge and skills in this section apply
across the specification, including the required
practicals.
16   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 17 ===
4 Subject content
This specification is presented in a two column format. The left hand column contains the
specification content that all students must cover and that can be assessed in the written papers.
The right hand column exemplifies some key opportunities for the following skills to be developed:
WS refers to Working scientifically (page 11), MS refers to Mathematical requirements (page 99)
and AT refers to Use of apparatus and techniques (page 101). These are not the only
opportunities. Teachers are encouraged to introduce all of these skills where appropriate
throughout the course.
Each topic begins with an overview. The overview puts the topic into a broader context and is
intended to encourage an overarching approach to both the teaching and learning of each of the
topic areas. It is not directly assessed. Any assessable content in this overview is replicated in the
left hand column.
Most of the content is co-teachable with GCSE Combined Science: Trilogy. Content that is only
applicable to chemistry is indicated by (chemistry only) either next to the topic heading where it
applies to the whole topic or immediately preceding each paragraph or bullet point as applicable.
Content that is only applicable to Higher Tier is indicated by (HT only) either next to the topic
heading where it applies to the whole topic or immediately preceding each paragraph or bullet
point as applicable.
It is good practice to teach and develop all of the mathematical skills throughout the course. Some
mathematical skills will only be assessed in certain subject areas. These are detailed in 
Mathematical requirements (page 99)
Science is a practical subject. Details of the assessment of required practicals can be found in 
Required practical activities (page 102). Working scientifically (page 11) and Use of apparatus and
techniques (page 101) skills will be assessed across all papers.
The concepts and principles in Sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 are fundamental to an understanding of
chemistry and underpin much of the content detailed in later sections of the specification.
Students will be directly examined on these fundamental concepts in Paper 1. Students should be
able to apply these concepts in their answers in Paper 2.
4.1 Atomic structure and the periodic table
The periodic table provides chemists with a structured organisation of the known chemical
elements from which they can make sense of their physical and chemical properties. The historical
development of the periodic table and models of atomic structure provide good examples of how
scientific ideas and explanations develop over time as new evidence emerges. The arrangement of
elements in the modern periodic table can be explained in terms of atomic structure which provides
evidence for the model of a nuclear atom with electrons in energy levels.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   17

=== PDF page 18 ===
4.1.1 A simple model of the atom, symbols, relative atomic mass,
electronic charge and isotopes
4.1.1.1 Atoms, elements and compounds
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
All substances are made of atoms. An atom is the smallest part of
an element that can exist.
Atoms of each element are represented by a chemical symbol, eg
O represents an atom of oxygen, Na represents an atom of sodium.
There are about 100 different elements. Elements are shown in the
periodic table.
Compounds are formed from elements by chemical reactions.
Chemical reactions always involve the formation of one or more
new substances, and often involve a detectable energy change.
Compounds contain two or more elements chemically combined in
fixed proportions and can be represented by formulae using the
symbols of the atoms from which they were formed. Compounds
can only be separated into elements by chemical reactions.
Chemical reactions can be represented by word equations or
equations using symbols and formulae.
Students will be supplied with a periodic table for the exam and
should be able to:
• use the names and symbols of the first 20 elements in the
periodic table, the elements in Groups 1 and 7, and other
elements in this specification
• name compounds of these elements from given formulae or
symbol equations
• write word equations for the reactions in this specification
• write formulae and balanced chemical equations for the
reactions in this specification.
(HT only) write balanced half equations and ionic equations where
appropriate.
18   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 19 ===
4.1.1.2 Mixtures
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A mixture consists of two or more elements or compounds not
chemically combined together. The chemical properties of each
substance in the mixture are unchanged.
Mixtures can be separated by physical processes such as filtration,
crystallisation, simple distillation, fractional distillation and
chromatography. These physical processes do not involve chemical
reactions and no new substances are made.
Students should be able to:
• describe, explain and give examples of the specified
processes of separation
• suggest suitable separation and purification techniques for
mixtures when given appropriate information.
WS 2.2, 2.3
AT 4
Safe use of a range of
equipment to separate
chemical mixtures.
4.1.1.3 The development of the model of the atom (common content with physics)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
New experimental evidence may lead to a scientific model being
changed or replaced.
Before the discovery of the electron, atoms were thought to be tiny
spheres that could not be divided.
The discovery of the electron led to the plum pudding model of the
atom. The plum pudding model suggested that the atom is a ball of
positive charge with negative electrons embedded in it.
The results from the alpha particle scattering experiment led to the
conclusion that the mass of an atom was concentrated at the centre
(nucleus) and that the nucleus was charged. This nuclear model
replaced the plum pudding model.
Niels Bohr adapted the nuclear model by suggesting that electrons
orbit the nucleus at specific distances. The theoretical calculations
of Bohr agreed with experimental observations.
Later experiments led to the idea that the positive charge of any
nucleus could be subdivided into a whole number of smaller
particles, each particle having the same amount of positive charge.
The name proton was given to these particles.
The experimental work of James Chadwick provided the evidence
to show the existence of neutrons within the nucleus. This was
about 20 years after the nucleus became an accepted scientific
idea.
Students should be able to describe:
WS 1.1, 1.6
This historical context
provides an opportunity for
students to show an
understanding of why and
describe how scientific
methods and theories
develop over time.
WS 1.2
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   19

=== PDF page 20 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
• why the new evidence from the scattering experiment led to a
change in the atomic model
WS 1.1
• the difference between the plum pudding model of the atom
and the nuclear model of the atom.
WS 1.2
Details of experimental work supporting the Bohr model are not
required.
Details of Chadwick’s experimental work are not required.
4.1.1.4 Relative electrical charges of subatomic particles
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The relative electrical charges of the particles in atoms are:
In an atom, the number of electrons is equal to the number of
protons in the nucleus. Atoms have no overall electrical charge.
The number of protons in an atom of an element is its atomic
number. All atoms of a particular element have the same number of
protons. Atoms of different elements have different numbers of
protons.
Students should be able to use the nuclear model to describe
atoms.
WS 1.2
20   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 21 ===
4.1.1.5 Size and mass of atoms
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Atoms are very small, having a radius of about 0.1 nm (1 x 10-10 m).
The radius of a nucleus is less than 1/10 000 of that of the atom
(about 1 x 10-14 m).
Almost all of the mass of an atom is in the nucleus.
The relative masses of protons, neutrons and electrons are:
The sum of the protons and neutrons in an atom is its mass
number.
Atoms of the same element can have different numbers of
neutrons; these atoms are called isotopes of that element.
Atoms can be represented as shown in this example:
Students should be able to calculate the numbers of protons,
neutrons and electrons in an atom or ion, given its atomic number
and mass number.
WS 4.3, 4
Use SI units and the prefix
nano.
MS 1b
Recognise expressions in
standard form.
Students should be able to relate size and scale of atoms to objects
in the physical world.
MS 1d
4.1.1.6 Relative atomic mass
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The relative atomic mass of an element is an average value that
takes account of the abundance of the isotopes of the element.
Students should be able to calculate the relative atomic mass of an
element given the percentage abundance of its isotopes.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   21

=== PDF page 22 ===
4.1.1.7 Electronic structure
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The electrons in an atom occupy the lowest available energy levels
(innermost available shells). The electronic structure of an atom can
be represented by numbers or by a diagram. For example, the
electronic structure of sodium is 2,8,1 or
showing two electrons in the lowest energy level, eight in the
second energy level and one in the third energy level.
Students may answer questions in terms of either energy levels or
shells.
WS 1.2
Students should be able to
represent the electronic
structures of the first twenty
elements of the periodic
table in both forms.
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
4.1.2 The periodic table
4.1.2.1 The periodic table
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The elements in the periodic table are arranged in order of atomic
(proton) number and so that elements with similar properties are in
columns, known as groups. The table is called a periodic table
because similar properties occur at regular intervals.
Elements in the same group in the periodic table have the same
number of electrons in their outer shell (outer electrons) and this
gives them similar chemical properties.
Students should be able to:
• explain how the position of an element in the periodic table is
related to the arrangement of electrons in its atoms and hence
to its atomic number
• predict possible reactions and probable reactivity of elements
from their positions in the periodic table.
WS 1.2
22   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 23 ===
4.1.2.2 Development of the periodic table
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Before the discovery of protons, neutrons and electrons, scientists
attempted to classify the elements by arranging them in order of
their atomic weights.
The early periodic tables were incomplete and some elements were
placed in inappropriate groups if the strict order of atomic weights
was followed.
Mendeleev overcame some of the problems by leaving gaps for
elements that he thought had not been discovered and in some
places changed the order based on atomic weights.
Elements with properties predicted by Mendeleev were discovered
and filled the gaps. Knowledge of isotopes made it possible to
explain why the order based on atomic weights was not always
correct.
Students should be able to describe these steps in the development
of the periodic table.
WS 1.1, 1.6
Explain how testing a
prediction can support or
refute a new scientific idea.
4.1.2.3 Metals and non-metals
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Elements that react to form positive ions are metals.
Elements that do not form positive ions are non-metals.
The majority of elements are metals. Metals are found to the left
and towards the bottom of the periodic table. Non-metals are found
towards the right and top of the periodic table.
Students should be able to:
• explain the differences between metals and non-metals on the
basis of their characteristic physical and chemical properties.
This links to Group 0 (page 24), Group 1 (page 24), Group
7 (page 25) and Bonding, structure and the properties of
matter (page 26)
• explain how the atomic structure of metals and non-metals
relates to their position in the periodic table
• explain how the reactions of elements are related to the
arrangement of electrons in their atoms and hence to their
atomic number.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   23

=== PDF page 24 ===
4.1.2.4 Group 0
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The elements in Group 0 of the periodic table are called the noble
gases. They are unreactive and do not easily form molecules
because their atoms have stable arrangements of electrons. The
noble gases have eight electrons in their outer shell, except for
helium, which has only two electrons.
The boiling points of the noble gases increase with increasing
relative atomic mass (going down the group).
Students should be able to:
• explain how properties of the elements in Group 0 depend on
the outer shell of electrons of the atoms
• predict properties from given trends down the group.
WS 1.2
4.1.2.5 Group 1
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The elements in Group 1 of the periodic table are known as the
alkali metals and have characteristic properties because of the
single electron in their outer shell.
Students should be able to describe the reactions of the first three
alkali metals with oxygen, chlorine and water.
In Group 1, the reactivity of the elements increases going down the
group.
Students should be able to:
• explain how properties of the elements in Group 1 depend on
the outer shell of electrons of the atoms
• predict properties from given trends down the group.
WS 1.2
24   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 25 ===
4.1.2.6 Group 7
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The elements in Group 7 of the periodic table are known as the
halogens and have similar reactions because they all have seven
electrons in their outer shell. The halogens are non-metals and
consist of molecules made of pairs of atoms.
Students should be able to describe the nature of the compounds
formed when chlorine, bromine and iodine react with metals and
non-metals.
In Group 7, the further down the group an element is the higher its
relative molecular mass, melting point and boiling point.
In Group 7, the reactivity of the elements decreases going down the
group.
A more reactive halogen can displace a less reactive halogen from
an aqueous solution of its salt.
AT 6
Offers an opportunity within
displacement reactions of
halogens.
Students should be able to:
• explain how properties of the elements in Group 7 depend on
the outer shell of electrons of the atoms
• predict properties from given trends down the group.
WS 1.2
4.1.3 Properties of transition metals (chemistry only)
4.1.3.1 Comparison with Group 1 elements
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The transition elements are metals with similar properties which are
different from those of the elements in Group 1.
Students should be able to describe the difference compared with
Group 1 in melting points, densities, strength, hardness and
reactivity with oxygen, water and halogens.
Students should be able to exemplify these general properties by
reference to Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   25

=== PDF page 26 ===
4.1.3.2 Typical properties
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Many transition elements have ions with different charges, form
coloured compounds and are useful as catalysts.
Students should be able to exemplify these general properties by
reference to compounds of Cr, Mn, Fe, Co, Ni, Cu.
4.2 Bonding, structure, and the properties of matter
Chemists use theories of structure and bonding to explain the physical and chemical properties of
materials. Analysis of structures shows that atoms can be arranged in a variety of ways, some of
which are molecular while others are giant structures. Theories of bonding explain how atoms are
held together in these structures. Scientists use this knowledge of structure and bonding to
engineer new materials with desirable properties. The properties of these materials may offer new
applications in a range of different technologies.
4.2.1 Chemical bonds, ionic, covalent and metallic
4.2.1.1 Chemical bonds
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
There are three types of strong chemical bonds: ionic, covalent and
metallic. For ionic bonding the particles are oppositely charged ions.
For covalent bonding the particles are atoms which share pairs of
electrons. For metallic bonding the particles are atoms which share
delocalised electrons.
Ionic bonding occurs in compounds formed from metals combined
with non-metals.
Covalent bonding occurs in most non-metallic elements and in
compounds of non-metals.
Metallic bonding occurs in metallic elements and alloys.
Students should be able to explain chemical bonding in terms of
electrostatic forces and the transfer or sharing of electrons.
26   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 27 ===
4.2.1.2 Ionic bonding
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When a metal atom reacts with a non-metal atom electrons in the
outer shell of the metal atom are transferred. Metal atoms lose
electrons to become positively charged ions. Non-metal atoms gain
electrons to become negatively charged ions. The ions produced by
metals in Groups 1 and 2 and by non-metals in Groups 6 and 7
have the electronic structure of a noble gas (Group 0).
The electron transfer during the formation of an ionic compound can
be represented by a dot and cross diagram, eg for sodium chloride
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
Students should be able to draw dot and cross diagrams for ionic
compounds formed by metals in Groups 1 and 2 with non-metals in
Groups 6 and 7.
The charge on the ions produced by metals in Groups 1 and 2 and
by non-metals in Groups 6 and 7 relates to the group number of the
element in the periodic table.
Students should be able to work out the charge on the ions of
metals and non-metals from the group number of the element,
limited to the metals in Groups 1 and 2, and non-metals in Groups 6
and 7.
WS 1.2
4.2.1.3 Ionic compounds
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
An ionic compound is a giant structure of ions. Ionic compounds are
held together by strong electrostatic forces of attraction between
oppositely charged ions. These forces act in all directions in the
lattice and this is called ionic bonding.
The structure of sodium chloride can be represented in the following
forms:
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   27

=== PDF page 28 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to:
• deduce that a compound is ionic from a diagram of its
structure in one of the specified forms
• describe the limitations of using dot and cross, ball and stick,
two and three-dimensional diagrams to represent a giant ionic
structure
• work out the empirical formula of an ionic compound from a
given model or diagram that shows the ions in the structure.
Students should be familiar with the structure of sodium chloride but
do not need to know the structures of other ionic compounds.
WS 1.2
MS 4a
MS 1a, 1c
28   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 29 ===
4.2.1.4 Covalent bonding
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When atoms share pairs of electrons, they form covalent bonds.
These bonds between atoms are strong.
Covalently bonded substances may consist of small molecules.
Students should be able to recognise common substances that
consist of small molecules from their chemical formula.
Some covalently bonded substances have very large molecules,
such as polymers.
Some covalently bonded substances have giant covalent
structures, such as diamond and silicon dioxide.
The covalent bonds in molecules and giant structures can be
represented in the following forms:
Polymers can be represented in the form:
where n is a large number.
WS 1.2
Recognise substances as
small molecules, polymers
or giant structures from
diagrams showing their
bonding.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   29

=== PDF page 30 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to:
• draw dot and cross diagrams for the molecules of hydrogen,
chlorine, oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen chloride, water,
ammonia and methane
• represent the covalent bonds in small molecules, in the
repeating units of polymers and in part of giant covalent
structures, using a line to represent a single bond
• describe the limitations of using dot and cross, ball and stick,
two and three-dimensional diagrams to represent molecules
or giant structures
• deduce the molecular formula of a substance from a given
model or diagram in these forms showing the atoms and
bonds in the molecule.
MS 5b
4.2.1.5 Metallic bonding
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Metals consist of giant structures of atoms arranged in a regular
pattern.
The electrons in the outer shell of metal atoms are delocalised and
so are free to move through the whole structure. The sharing of
delocalised electrons gives rise to strong metallic bonds. The
bonding in metals may be represented in the following form:
WS 1.2
Recognise substances as
metallic giant structures
from diagrams showing
their bonding.
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
30   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 31 ===
4.2.2 How bonding and structure are related to the properties of
substances
4.2.2.1 The three states of matter
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The three states of matter are solid, liquid and gas. Melting and
freezing take place at the melting point, boiling and condensing
take place at the boiling point.
The three states of matter can be represented by a simple model. In
this model, particles are represented by small solid spheres.
Particle theory can help to explain melting, boiling, freezing and
condensing.
The amount of energy needed to change state from solid to liquid
and from liquid to gas depends on the strength of the forces
between the particles of the substance. The nature of the particles
involved depends on the type of bonding and the structure of the
substance. The stronger the forces between the particles the higher
the melting point and boiling point of the substance.
(HT only) Limitations of the simple model above include that in the
model there are no forces, that all particles are represented as
spheres and that the spheres are solid.
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
Students should be able to:
• predict the states of substances at different temperatures
given appropriate data
• explain the different temperatures at which changes of state
occur in terms of energy transfers and types of bonding
• recognise that atoms themselves do not have the bulk
properties of materials
• (HT only) explain the limitations of the particle theory in
relation to changes of state when particles are represented by
solid inelastic spheres which have no forces between them.
WS 1.2
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   31

=== PDF page 32 ===
4.2.2.2 State symbols
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
In chemical equations, the three states of matter are shown as (s),
(l) and (g), with (aq) for aqueous solutions.
Students should be able to include appropriate state symbols in
chemical equations for the reactions in this specification.
4.2.2.3 Properties of ionic compounds
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Ionic compounds have regular structures (giant ionic lattices) in
which there are strong electrostatic forces of attraction in all
directions between oppositely charged ions.
These compounds have high melting points and high boiling points
because of the large amounts of energy needed to break the many
strong bonds.
When melted or dissolved in water, ionic compounds conduct
electricity because the ions are free to move and so charge can
flow.
Knowledge of the structures of specific ionic compounds other than
sodium chloride is not required.
4.2.2.4 Properties of small molecules
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Substances that consist of small molecules are usually gases or
liquids that have relatively low melting points and boiling points.
These substances have only weak forces between the molecules
(intermolecular forces). It is these intermolecular forces that are
overcome, not the covalent bonds, when the substance melts or
boils.
The intermolecular forces increase with the size of the molecules,
so larger molecules have higher melting and boiling points.
These substances do not conduct electricity because the molecules
do not have an overall electric charge.
Students should be able to use the idea that intermolecular forces
are weak compared with covalent bonds to explain the bulk
properties of molecular substances.
WS 1.2
32   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 33 ===
4.2.2.5 Polymers
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Polymers have very large molecules. The atoms in the polymer
molecules are linked to other atoms by strong covalent bonds. The
intermolecular forces between polymer molecules are relatively
strong and so these substances are solids at room temperature.
Students should be able to recognise polymers from diagrams
showing their bonding and structure.
4.2.2.6 Giant covalent structures
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Substances that consist of giant covalent structures are solids with
very high melting points. All of the atoms in these structures are
linked to other atoms by strong covalent bonds. These bonds must
be overcome to melt or boil these substances. Diamond and
graphite (forms of carbon) and silicon dioxide (silica) are examples
of giant covalent structures.
Students should be able to recognise giant covalent structures from
diagrams showing their bonding and structure.
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
WS 1.2
4.2.2.7 Properties of metals and alloys
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Metals have giant structures of atoms with strong metallic bonding.
This means that most metals have high melting and boiling points.
In pure metals, atoms are arranged in layers, which allows metals
to be bent and shaped. Pure metals are too soft for many uses and
so are mixed with other metals to make alloys which are harder.
Students should be able to explain why alloys are harder than pure
metals in terms of distortion of the layers of atoms in the structure of
a pure metal.
WS 1.2
4.2.2.8 Metals as conductors
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Metals are good conductors of electricity because the delocalised
electrons in the metal carry electrical charge through the metal.
Metals are good conductors of thermal energy because energy is
transferred by the delocalised electrons.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   33

=== PDF page 34 ===
4.2.3 Structure and bonding of carbon
4.2.3.1 Diamond
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
In diamond, each carbon atom forms four covalent bonds with other
carbon atoms in a giant covalent structure, so diamond is very hard,
has a very high melting point and does not conduct electricity.
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
Students should be able to explain the properties of diamond in
terms of its structure and bonding.
WS 1.2
4.2.3.2 Graphite
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
In graphite, each carbon atom forms three covalent bonds with
three other carbon atoms, forming layers of hexagonal rings which
have no covalent bonds between the layers.
In graphite, one electron from each carbon atom is delocalised.
Students should be able to explain the properties of graphite in
terms of its structure and bonding.
Students should know that graphite is similar to metals in that it has
delocalised electrons.
WS 1.2
34   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 35 ===
4.2.3.3 Graphene and fullerenes
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Graphene is a single layer of graphite and has properties that make
it useful in electronics and composites.
Students should be able to explain the properties of graphene in
terms of its structure and bonding.
Fullerenes are molecules of carbon atoms with hollow shapes. The
structure of fullerenes is based on hexagonal rings of carbon atoms
but they may also contain rings with five or seven carbon atoms.
The first fullerene to be discovered was Buckminsterfullerene (C60)
which has a spherical shape.
Carbon nanotubes are cylindrical fullerenes with very high length to
diameter ratios. Their properties make them useful for
nanotechnology, electronics and materials.
Students should be able to:
• recognise graphene and fullerenes from diagrams and
descriptions of their bonding and structure
• give examples of the uses of fullerenes, including carbon
nanotubes.
WS 1.2, 1.4
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
4.2.4 Bulk and surface properties of matter including nanoparticles
(chemistry only)
4.2.4.1 Sizes of particles and their properties
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Nanoscience refers to structures that are 1–100 nm in size, of the
order of a few hundred atoms. Nanoparticles, are smaller than fine
particles (PM2.5), which have diameters between 100 and 2500 nm
(1 x 10-7 m and 2.5 x 10-6 m). Coarse particles (PM10) have
diameters between 1 x 10-5 m and 2.5 x 10-6 m. Coarse particles
are often referred to as dust.
As the side of cube decreases by a factor of 10 the surface area to
volume ratio increases by a factor of 10.
Nanoparticles may have properties different from those for the
same materials in bulk because of their high surface area to
volume ratio. It may also mean that smaller quantities are needed
to be effective than for materials with normal particle sizes.
WS 1.2, 1.4, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3
4.4, 4.5
MS 2h
Make order of magnitude
calculations.
MS 5c
Calculate areas of triangles
and rectangles, surface
areas and volumes of cubes.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   35

=== PDF page 36 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Students should be able to compare ‘nano’ dimensions to typical
dimensions of atoms and molecules.
MS 1b
Recognise and use
expressions in standard
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
MS 1d
Make estimates of the
results of simple
calculations.
4.2.4.2 Uses of nanoparticles
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Nanoparticles have many applications in medicine, in electronics, in
cosmetics and sun creams, as deodorants, and as catalysts. New
applications for nanoparticulate materials are an important area of
research.
Students should consider advantages and disadvantages of the
applications of these nanoparticulate materials, but do not need to
know specific examples or properties other than those specified.
Students should be able to:
• given appropriate information, evaluate the use of
nanoparticles for a specified purpose
• explain that there are possible risks associated with the use of
nanoparticles.
WS 1.3, 1.4, 1.5
4.3 Quantitative chemistry
Chemists use quantitative analysis to determine the formulae of compounds and the equations for
reactions. Given this information, analysts can then use quantitative methods to determine the
purity of chemical samples and to monitor the yield from chemical reactions.
Chemical reactions can be classified in various ways. Identifying different types of chemical
reaction allows chemists to make sense of how different chemicals react together, to establish
patterns and to make predictions about the behaviour of other chemicals. Chemical equations
provide a means of representing chemical reactions and are a key way for chemists to
communicate chemical ideas.
36   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 37 ===
4.3.1 Chemical measurements, conservation of mass and the
quantitative interpretation of chemical equations
4.3.1.1 Conservation of mass and balanced chemical equations
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The law of conservation of mass states that no atoms are lost or
made during a chemical reaction so the mass of the products
equals the mass of the reactants.
This means that chemical reactions can be represented by symbol
equations which are balanced in terms of the numbers of atoms of
each element involved on both sides of the equation.
Students should understand the use of the multipliers in equations
in normal script before a formula and in subscript within a formula.
WS 1.2
4.3.1.2 Relative formula mass
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The relative formula mass (Mr) of a compound is the sum of the
relative atomic masses of the atoms in the numbers shown in the
formula.
In a balanced chemical equation, the sum of the relative formula
masses of the reactants in the quantities shown equals the sum of
the relative formula masses of the products in the quantities shown.
Students should be able to calculate the percentage by mass in a
compound given the relative formula mass and the relative atomic
masses.
4.3.1.3 Mass changes when a reactant or product is a gas
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Some reactions may appear to involve a change in mass but this
can usually be explained because a reactant or product is a gas
and its mass has not been taken into account. For example: when a
metal reacts with oxygen the mass of the oxide produced is greater
than the mass of the metal or in thermal decompositions of metal
carbonates carbon dioxide is produced and escapes into the
atmosphere leaving the metal oxide as the only solid product.
Students should be able to explain any observed changes in mass
in non-enclosed systems during a chemical reaction given the
balanced symbol equation for the reaction and explain these
changes in terms of the particle model.
AT 1, 2,6
Opportunities within
investigation of mass
changes using various
apparatus.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   37

=== PDF page 38 ===
4.3.1.4 Chemical measurements
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Whenever a measurement is made there is always some
uncertainty about the result obtained.
Students should be able to:
• represent the distribution of results and make estimations of
uncertainty
• use the range of a set of measurements about the mean as a
measure of uncertainty.
WS 3.4
4.3.2 Use of amount of substance in relation to masses of pure
substances
4.3.2.1 Moles (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Chemical amounts are measured in moles. The symbol for the unit
mole is mol.
The mass of one mole of a substance in grams is numerically equal
to its relative formula mass.
One mole of a substance contains the same number of the stated
particles, atoms, molecules or ions as one mole of any other
substance.
The number of atoms, molecules or ions in a mole of a given
substance is the Avogadro constant. The value of the Avogadro
constant is 6.02 x 1023 per mole.
Students should understand that the measurement of amounts in
moles can apply to atoms, molecules, ions, electrons, formulae and
equations, for example that in one mole of carbon (C) the number of
atoms is the same as the number of molecules in one mole of
carbon dioxide (CO2).
WS 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.5, 4.6
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1b
Recognise and use
expressions in standard
form.
MS 2a
Use an appropriate number
of significant figures.
MS 3a
Understand and use the
symbols: =, <, <<, >>, >, ∝,
~
MS 3b
Change the subject of an
equation.
Students should be able to use the relative formula mass of a
substance to calculate the number of moles in a given mass of that
substance and vice versa.
MS 1c
38   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 39 ===
4.3.2.2 Amounts of substances in equations (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The masses of reactants and products can be calculated from
balanced symbol equations.
Chemical equations can be interpreted in terms of moles. For
example:
Mg + 2HCI MgCI2 +  H2
shows that one mole of magnesium reacts with two moles of
hydrochloric acid to produce one mole of magnesium chloride and
one mole of hydrogen gas.
Students should be able to:
• calculate the masses of substances shown in a balanced
symbol equation
• calculate the masses of reactants and products from the
balanced symbol equation and the mass of a given reactant
or product.
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
MS 3b
Change the subject of an
equation.
MS 3c
Substitute numerical values
into algebraic equations
using appropriate units for
physical quantities.
4.3.2.3 Using moles to balance equations (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The balancing numbers in a symbol equation can be calculated
from the masses of reactants and products by converting the
masses in grams to amounts in moles and converting the numbers
of moles to simple whole number ratios.
Students should be able to balance an equation given the masses
of reactants and products.
Students should be able to change the subject of a mathematical
equation.
MS 3b
Change the subject of an
equation.
MS 3c
Substitute numerical values
into algebraic equations
using appropriate units for
physical quantities.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   39

=== PDF page 40 ===
4.3.2.4 Limiting reactants (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
In a chemical reaction involving two reactants, it is common to use
an excess of one of the reactants to ensure that all of the other
reactant is used. The reactant that is completely used up is called
the limiting reactant because it limits the amount of products.
Students should be able to explain the effect of a limiting quantity of
a reactant on the amount of products it is possible to obtain in terms
of amounts in moles or masses in grams.
WS 4.1
4.3.2.5 Concentration of solutions
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Many chemical reactions take place in solutions. The concentration
of a solution can be measured in mass per given volume of
solution, eg grams per dm3 (g/dm3).
Students should be able to:
• calculate the mass of solute in a given volume of solution of
known concentration in terms of mass per given volume of
solution
• (HT only) explain how the mass of a solute and the volume of
a solution is related to the concentration of the solution.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
MS 3b
Change the subject of an
equation.
40   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 41 ===
4.3.3 Yield and atom economy of chemical reactions (chemistry only)
4.3.3.1 Percentage yield
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Even though no atoms are gained or lost in a chemical reaction, it is
not always possible to obtain the calculated amount of a product
because:
• the reaction may not go to completion because it is reversible
• some of the product may be lost when it is separated from the
reaction mixture
• some of the reactants may react in ways different to the
expected reaction.
The amount of a product obtained is known as the yield. When
compared with the maximum theoretical amount as a percentage, it
is called the percentage yield.
% Y ield =  M ass o f  product actuall y made
M aximum theoretical mass o f  product  × 100
Students should be able to:
• calculate the percentage yield of a product from the actual
yield of a reaction
• (HT only) calculate the theoretical mass of a product from a
given mass of reactant and the balanced equation for the
reaction.
WS 4.2, 4.6
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
MS 2a
Use an appropriate number
of significant figures.
MS 3b
Change the subject of an
equation.
4.3.3.2 Atom economy
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The atom economy (atom utilisation) is a measure of the amount of
starting materials that end up as useful products. It is important for
sustainable development and for economic reasons to use
reactions with high atom economy.
The percentage atom economy of a reaction is calculated using the
balanced equation for the reaction as follows:
Relative f ormula mass o f  desired  product f rom equation
Sum o f  relative f ormula masses o f  all reactants f rom equation × 100
Students should be able to:
• calculate the atom economy of a reaction to form a desired
product from the balanced equation
• (HT only) explain why a particular reaction pathway is chosen
to produce a specified product given appropriate data such as
atom economy (if not calculated), yield, rate, equilibrium
position and usefulness of by-products.
WS 4.2, 4.6
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
MS 3b
Change the subject of an
equation.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   41

=== PDF page 42 ===
4.3.4 Using concentrations of solutions in mol/dm3 (chemistry only)
(HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The concentration of a solution can be measured in mol/dm3.
The amount in moles of solute or the mass in grams of solute in a
given volume of solution can be calculated from its concentration in
mol/dm3.
If the volumes of two solutions that react completely are known and
the concentration of one solution is known, the concentration of the
other solution can be calculated.
Students should be able to explain how the concentration of a
solution in mol/dm3 is related to the mass of the solute and the
volume of the solution.
WS 4.2, 4.3, 4.6
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
MS 3b
Change the subject of an
equation.
MS 3c
Substitute numerical values
into algebraic equations
using appropriate units for
physical quantities.
AT 1, 3, 8
Opportunities within
titrations including to
determine concentrations of
strong acids and alkalis.
42   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 43 ===
4.3.5 Use of amount of substance in relation to volumes of gases
(chemistry only) (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Equal amounts in moles of gases occupy the same volume under
the same conditions of temperature and pressure.
The volume of one mole of any gas at room temperature and
pressure (20oC and 1 atmosphere pressure) is 24 dm3.
The volumes of gaseous reactants and products can be calculated
from the balanced equation for the reaction.
Students should be able to:
• calculate the volume of a gas at room temperature and
pressure from its mass and relative formula mass
• calculate volumes of gaseous reactants and products from a
balanced equation and a given volume of a gaseous reactant
or product
• change the subject of a mathematical equation.
WS 1.2, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.6
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
MS 3b
Change the subject of an
equation.
MS 3c
Substitute numerical values
into algebraic equations
using appropriate units for
physical quantities.
4.4 Chemical changes
Understanding of chemical changes began when people began experimenting with chemical
reactions in a systematic way and organizing their results logically. Knowing about these different
chemical changes meant that scientists could begin to predict exactly what new substances would
be formed and use this knowledge to develop a wide range of different materials and processes. It
also helped biochemists to understand the complex reactions that take place in living organisms.
The extraction of important resources from the earth makes use of the way that some elements
and compounds react with each other and how easily they can be ‘pulled apart’.
4.4.1 Reactivity of metals
4.4.1.1 Metal oxides
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Metals react with oxygen to produce metal oxides. The reactions
are oxidation reactions because the metals gain oxygen.
Students should be able to explain reduction and oxidation in terms
of loss or gain of oxygen.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   43

=== PDF page 44 ===
4.4.1.2 The reactivity series
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When metals react with other substances the metal atoms form
positive ions. The reactivity of a metal is related to its tendency to
form positive ions. Metals can be arranged in order of their reactivity
in a reactivity series. The metals potassium, sodium, lithium,
calcium, magnesium, zinc, iron and copper can be put in order of
their reactivity from their reactions with water and dilute acids.
The non-metals hydrogen and carbon are often included in the
reactivity series.
A more reactive metal can displace a less reactive metal from a
compound.
Students should be able to:
• recall and describe the reactions, if any, of potassium,
sodium, lithium, calcium, magnesium, zinc, iron and copper
with water or dilute acids and where appropriate, to place
these metals in order of reactivity
• explain how the reactivity of metals with water or dilute acids
is related to the tendency of the metal to form its positive ion
• deduce an order of reactivity of metals based on experimental
results.
The reactions of metals with water and acids are limited to room
temperature and do not include reactions with steam.
AT 6
Mixing of reagents to
explore chemical changes
and/or products.
44   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 45 ===
4.4.1.3 Extraction of metals and reduction
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Unreactive metals such as gold are found in the Earth as the metal
itself but most metals are found as compounds that require
chemical reactions to extract the metal.
Metals less reactive than carbon can be extracted from their oxides
by reduction with carbon.
Reduction involves the loss of oxygen.
Knowledge and understanding are limited to the reduction of oxides
using carbon.
Knowledge of the details of processes used in the extraction of
metals is not required.
Students should be able to:
• interpret or evaluate specific metal extraction processes when
given appropriate information
• identify the substances which are oxidised or reduced in
terms of gain or loss of oxygen.
4.4.1.4 Oxidation and reduction in terms of electrons (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Oxidation is the loss of electrons and reduction is the gain of
electrons.
Student should be able to:
• write ionic equations for displacement reactions
• identify in a given reaction, symbol equation or half equation
which species are oxidised and which are reduced.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   45

=== PDF page 46 ===
4.4.2 Reactions of acids
4.4.2.1 Reactions of acids with metals
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Acids react with some metals to produce salts and hydrogen.
(HT only) Students should be able to:
• explain in terms of gain or loss of electrons, that these are
redox reactions
• identify which species are oxidised and which are reduced in
given chemical equations.
Knowledge of reactions limited to those of magnesium, zinc
and iron with hydrochloric and sulfuric acids.
4.4.2.2 Neutralisation of acids and salt production
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Acids are neutralised by alkalis (eg soluble metal hydroxides) and
bases (eg insoluble metal hydroxides and metal oxides) to produce
salts and water, and by metal carbonates to produce salts, water
and carbon dioxide.
The particular salt produced in any reaction between an acid and a
base or alkali depends on:
• the acid used (hydrochloric acid produces chlorides, nitric acid
produces nitrates, sulfuric acid produces sulfates)
• the positive ions in the base, alkali or carbonate.
Students should be able to:
• predict products from given reactants
• use the formulae of common ions to deduce the formulae of
salts.
46   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 47 ===
4.4.2.3 Soluble salts
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Soluble salts can be made from acids by reacting them with solid
insoluble substances, such as metals, metal oxides, hydroxides or
carbonates. The solid is added to the acid until no more reacts and
the excess solid is filtered off to produce a solution of the salt.
Salt solutions can be crystallised to produce solid salts.
Students should be able to describe how to make pure, dry samples
of named soluble salts from information provided.
Required practical 1: preparation of a pure, dry sample of a soluble salt from an insoluble oxide
or carbonate using a Bunsen burner to heat dilute acid and a water bath or electric heater to
evaporate the solution.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: 2, 3, 4 and 6.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 103).
4.4.2.4 The pH scale and neutralisation
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Acids produce hydrogen ions (H+) in aqueous solutions.
Aqueous solutions of alkalis contain hydroxide ions (OH–).
The pH scale, from 0 to 14, is a measure of the acidity or alkalinity
of a solution, and can be measured using universal indicator or a
pH probe.
A solution with pH 7 is neutral. Aqueous solutions of acids have pH
values of less than 7 and aqueous solutions of alkalis have pH
values greater than 7.
In neutralisation reactions between an acid and an alkali, hydrogen
ions react with hydroxide ions to produce water.
This reaction can be represented by the equation:
Students should be able to:
• describe the use of universal indicator or a wide range
indicator to measure the approximate pH of a solution
• use the pH scale to identify acidic or alkaline solutions.
AT 3
This is an opportunity to
investigate pH changes
when a strong acid
neutralises a strong alkali.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   47

=== PDF page 48 ===
4.4.2.5 Titrations (chemistry only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The volumes of acid and alkali solutions that react with each other
can be measured by titration using a suitable indicator.
Students should be able to:
• describe how to carry out titrations using strong acids and
strong alkalis only (sulfuric, hydrochloric and nitric acids only)
to find the reacting volumes accurately
• (HT Only) calculate the chemical quantities in titrations
involving concentrations in mol/dm3 and in g/dm3.
Required practical 2: (chemistry only) determination of the reacting volumes of solutions of a
strong acid and a strong alkali by titration.
(HT only) determination of the concentration of one of the solutions in mol/dm3 and g/dm3 from the
reacting volumes and the known concentration of the other solution.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: 1 and 8.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities and skills development (page 104).
4.4.2.6 Strong and weak acids (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A strong acid is completely ionised in aqueous solution. Examples
of strong acids are hydrochloric, nitric and sulfuric acids.
A weak acid is only partially ionised in aqueous solution. Examples
of weak acids are ethanoic, citric and carbonic acids.
For a given concentration of aqueous solutions, the stronger an
acid, the lower the pH.
As the pH decreases by one unit, the hydrogen ion concentration of
the solution increases by a factor of 10.
Students should be able to:
• use and explain the terms dilute and concentrated (in terms of
amount of substance), and weak and strong (in terms of the
degree of ionisation) in relation to acids
AT 8
An opportunity to measure
the pH of different acids at
different concentrations.
• describe neutrality and relative acidity in terms of the effect on
hydrogen ion concentration and the numerical value of pH
(whole numbers only).
MS 2h
Make order of magnitude
calculations.
48   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 49 ===
4.4.3 Electrolysis
4.4.3.1 The process of electrolysis
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When an ionic compound is melted or dissolved in water, the ions
are free to move about within the liquid or solution. These liquids
and solutions are able to conduct electricity and are called
electrolytes.
Passing an electric current through electrolytes causes the ions to
move to the electrodes. Positively charged ions move to the
negative electrode (the cathode), and negatively charged ions move
to the positive electrode (the anode). Ions are discharged at the
electrodes producing elements. This process is called electrolysis.
(HT only) Throughout Section 4.4.3 Higher Tier students should be
able to write half equations for the reactions occurring at the
electrodes during electrolysis, and may be required to complete and
balance supplied half equations.
4.4.3.2 Electrolysis of molten ionic compounds
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When a simple ionic compound (eg lead bromide) is electrolysed in
the molten state using inert electrodes, the metal (lead) is produced
at the cathode and the non-metal (bromine) is produced at the
anode.
Students should be able to predict the products of the electrolysis of
binary ionic compounds in the molten state.
A safer alternative for
practical work is anhydrous
zinc chloride.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   49

=== PDF page 50 ===
4.4.3.3 Using electrolysis to extract metals
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Metals can be extracted from molten compounds using electrolysis.
Electrolysis is used if the metal is too reactive to be extracted by
reduction with carbon or if the metal reacts with carbon. Large
amounts of energy are used in the extraction process to melt the
compounds and to produce the electrical current.
Aluminium is manufactured by the electrolysis of a molten mixture
of aluminium oxide and cryolite using carbon as the positive
electrode (anode).
Students should be able to:
• explain why a mixture is used as the electrolyte
• explain why the positive electrode must be continually
replaced.
4.4.3.4 Electrolysis of aqueous solutions
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The ions discharged when an aqueous solution is electrolysed
using inert electrodes depend on the relative reactivity of the
elements involved.
At the negative electrode (cathode), hydrogen is produced if the
metal is more reactive than hydrogen.
At the positive electrode (anode), oxygen is produced unless the
solution contains halide ions when the halogen is produced.
This happens because in the aqueous solution water molecules
break down producing hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions that are
discharged.
Students should be able to predict the products of the electrolysis of
aqueous solutions containing a single ionic compound.
WS 1.2
Required practical 3: investigate what happens when aqueous solutions are electrolysed using
inert electrodes. This should be an investigation involving developing a hypothesis.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: 3, 7 and 8.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities and skills development (page 104).
50   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 51 ===
4.4.3.5 Representation of reactions at electrodes as half equations (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
During electrolysis, at the cathode (negative electrode), positively
charged ions gain electrons and so the reactions are reductions.
At the anode (positive electrode), negatively charged ions lose
electrons and so the reactions are oxidations.
Reactions at electrodes can be represented by half equations, for
example:
2H+ + 2e- → H2
and
4OH- → O2 + 2H2O + 4e-
or
4OH- – 4e- → O2 + 2H2O
4.5 Energy changes
Energy changes are an important part of chemical reactions. The interaction of particles often
involves transfers of energy due to the breaking and formation of bonds. Reactions in which energy
is released to the surroundings are exothermic reactions, while those that take in thermal energy
are endothermic. These interactions between particles can produce heating or cooling effects that
are used in a range of everyday applications. Some interactions between ions in an electrolyte
result in the production of electricity. Cells and batteries use these chemical reactions to provide
electricity. Electricity can also be used to decompose ionic substances and is a useful means of
producing elements that are too expensive to extract any other way.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   51

=== PDF page 52 ===
4.5.1 Exothermic and endothermic reactions
4.5.1.1 Energy transfer during exothermic and endothermic reactions
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Energy is conserved in chemical reactions. The amount of energy in
the universe at the end of a chemical reaction is the same as before
the reaction takes place. If a reaction transfers energy to the
surroundings the product molecules must have less energy than the
reactants, by the amount transferred.
An exothermic reaction is one that transfers energy to the
surroundings so the temperature of the surroundings increases.
Exothermic reactions include combustion, many oxidation reactions
and neutralisation.
Everyday uses of exothermic reactions include self-heating cans
and hand warmers.
An endothermic reaction is one that takes in energy from the
surroundings so the temperature of the surroundings decreases.
Endothermic reactions include thermal decompositions and the
reaction of citric acid and sodium hydrogencarbonate. Some sports
injury packs are based on endothermic reactions.
Students should be able to:
• distinguish between exothermic and endothermic reactions on
the basis of the temperature change of the surroundings
• evaluate uses and applications of exothermic and endothermic
reactions given appropriate information.
Limited to measurement of temperature change. Calculation of
energy changes or ΔH is not required.
AT 5
An opportunity to measure
temperature changes when
substances react or
dissolve in water.
Required practical 4: investigate the variables that affect temperature changes in reacting
solutions such as, eg acid plus metals, acid plus carbonates, neutralisations, displacement of
metals.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: 1, 3, 5 and 6.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities and skills development (page 105).
52   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 53 ===
4.5.1.2 Reaction profiles
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Chemical reactions can occur only when reacting particles collide
with each other and with sufficient energy. The minimum amount of
energy that particles must have to react is called the activation
energy.
Reaction profiles can be used to show the relative energies of
reactants and products, the activation energy and the overall
energy change of a reaction.
Students should be able to:
• draw simple reaction profiles (energy level diagrams) for
exothermic and endothermic reactions showing the relative
energies of reactants and products, the activation energy and
the overall energy change, with a curved line to show the
energy as the reaction proceeds
• use reaction profiles to identify reactions as exothermic or
endothermic
• explain that the activation energy is the energy needed for a
reaction to occur.
4.5.1.3 The energy change of reactions (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
During a chemical reaction:
• energy must be supplied to break bonds in the reactants
• energy is released when bonds in the products are formed.
The energy needed to break bonds and the energy released when
bonds are formed can be calculated from bond energies.
The difference between the sum of the energy needed to break
bonds in the reactants and the sum of the energy released when
bonds in the products are formed is the overall energy change of
the reaction.
In an exothermic reaction, the energy released from forming new
bonds is greater than the energy needed to break existing bonds.
In an endothermic reaction, the energy needed to break existing
bonds is greater than the energy released from forming new bonds.
Students should be able to calculate the energy transferred in
chemical reactions using bond energies supplied.
MS 1a
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   53

=== PDF page 54 ===
4.5.2 Chemical cells and fuel cells (chemistry only)
4.5.2.1 Cells and batteries
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Cells contain chemicals which react to produce electricity.
The voltage produced by a cell is dependent upon a number of
factors including the type of electrode and electrolyte.
A simple cell can be made by connecting two different metals in
contact with an electrolyte.
Batteries consist of two or more cells connected together in series
to provide a greater voltage.
In non-rechargeable cells and batteries the chemical reactions stop
when one of the reactants has been used up. Alkaline batteries are
non-rechargeable.
Rechargeable cells and batteries can be recharged because the
chemical reactions are reversed when an external electrical current
is supplied.
Students should be able to interpret data for relative reactivity of
different metals and evaluate the use of cells.
Students do not need to know details of cells and batteries other
than those specified.
AT6
Safe and careful use of
liquids.
4.5.2.2 Fuel cells
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Fuel cells are supplied by an external source of fuel (eg hydrogen)
and oxygen or air. The fuel is oxidised electrochemically within the
fuel cell to produce a potential difference.
The overall reaction in a hydrogen fuel cell involves the oxidation of
hydrogen to produce water.
Hydrogen fuel cells offer a potential alternative to rechargeable cells
and batteries.
Students should be able to:
• evaluate the use of hydrogen fuel cells in comparison with
rechargeable cells and batteries
• (HT only) write the half equations for the electrode reactions
in the hydrogen fuel cell.
54   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 55 ===
4.6 The rate and extent of chemical change
Chemical reactions can occur at vastly different rates. Whilst the reactivity of chemicals is a
significant factor in how fast chemical reactions proceed, there are many variables that can be
manipulated in order to speed them up or slow them down. Chemical reactions may also be
reversible and therefore the effect of different variables needs to be established in order to identify
how to maximise the yield of desired product. Understanding energy changes that accompany
chemical reactions is important for this process. In industry, chemists and chemical engineers
determine the effect of different variables on reaction rate and yield of product. Whilst there may be
compromises to be made, they carry out optimisation processes to ensure that enough product is
produced within a sufficient time, and in an energy-efficient way.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   55

=== PDF page 56 ===
4.6.1 Rate of reaction
4.6.1.1 Calculating rates of reactions
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The rate of a chemical reaction can be found by measuring the
quantity of a reactant used or the quantity of product formed over
time:
mean rate o f  reaction  =   quantit y o f  reactant used
time taken
mean rate o f  reaction  =   quantit y o f   product  f ormed
time taken
The quantity of reactant or product can be measured by the mass in
grams or by a volume in cm3.
The units of rate of reaction may be given as g/s or cm3/s.
For the Higher Tier, students are also required to use quantity of
reactants in terms of moles and units for rate of reaction in mol/s.
Students should be able to:
• calculate the mean rate of a reaction from given information
about the quantity of a reactant used or the quantity of a
product formed and the time taken
• draw, and interpret, graphs showing the quantity of product
formed or quantity of reactant used up against time
• draw tangents to the curves on these graphs and use the
slope of the tangent as a measure of the rate of reaction
• (HT only) calculate the gradient of a tangent to the curve on
these graphs as a measure of rate of reaction at a specific
time.
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
MS 1d
Make estimates of the
results of simple
calculations.
MS 4a
Translate information
between graphical and
numeric form.
MS 4b
Drawing and interpreting
appropriate graphs from
data to determine rate of
reaction.
MS 4c
Plot two variables from
experimental or other data.
MS 4d
Determine the slope and
intercept of a linear graph.
MS 4e
Draw and use the slope of a
tangent to a curve as a
measure of rate of change.
56   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 57 ===
4.6.1.2 Factors which affect the rates of chemical reactions
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Factors which affect the rates of chemical reactions include: the
concentrations of reactants in solution, the pressure of reacting
gases, the surface area of solid reactants, the temperature and the
presence of catalysts.
Students should be able to recall how changing these factors
affects the rate of chemical reactions.
This topic offers
opportunities for practical
work and investigations in
addition to required
practical 5.
Required practical 5: investigate how changes in concentration affect the rates of reactions by a
method involving measuring the volume of a gas produced and a method involving a change in
colour or turbidity.
This should be an investigation involving developing a hypothesis.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: 1, 3, 5 and 6.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 106).
4.6.1.3 Collision theory and activation energy
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Collision theory explains how various factors affect rates of
reactions. According to this theory, chemical reactions can occur
only when reacting particles collide with each other and with
sufficient energy. The minimum amount of energy that particles
must have to react is called the activation energy.
Increasing the concentration of reactants in solution, the pressure of
reacting gases, and the surface area of solid reactants increases
the frequency of collisions and so increases the rate of reaction.
Increasing the temperature increases the frequency of collisions
and makes the collisions more energetic, and so increases the rate
of reaction.
Students should be able to :
• predict and explain using collision theory the effects of
changing conditions of concentration, pressure and
temperature on the rate of a reaction
WS 1.2
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   57

=== PDF page 58 ===
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
• predict and explain the effects of changes in the size of pieces
of a reacting solid in terms of surface area to volume ratio
• use simple ideas about proportionality when using collision
theory to explain the effect of a factor on the rate of a
reaction.
MS 5c
MS 1c
4.6.1.4 Catalysts
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Catalysts change the rate of chemical reactions but are not used up
during the reaction. Different reactions need different catalysts.
Enzymes act as catalysts in biological systems.
Catalysts increase the rate of reaction by providing a different
pathway for the reaction that has a lower activation energy.
A reaction profile for a catalysed reaction can be drawn in the
following form:
Students should be able to identify catalysts in reactions from their
effect on the rate of reaction and because they are not included in
the chemical equation for the reaction.
Students should be able to explain catalytic action in terms of
activation energy.
Students do not need to know the names of catalysts other than
those specified in the subject content.
AT 5
An opportunity to
investigate the catalytic
effect of adding different
metal salts to a reaction
such as the decomposition
of hydrogen peroxide.
58   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 59 ===
4.6.2 Reversible reactions and dynamic equilibrium
4.6.2.1 Reversible reactions
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
In some chemical reactions, the products of the reaction can react
to produce the original reactants. Such reactions are called
reversible reactions and are represented:
A + B C +  D
The direction of reversible reactions can be changed by changing
the conditions.
For example:
4.6.2.2 Energy changes and reversible reactions
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
If a reversible reaction is exothermic in one direction, it is
endothermic in the opposite direction. The same amount of energy
is transferred in each case. For example:
4.6.2.3 Equilibrium
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
When a reversible reaction occurs in apparatus which prevents the
escape of reactants and products, equilibrium is reached when the
forward and reverse reactions occur at exactly the same rate.
WS 1.2
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   59

=== PDF page 60 ===
4.6.2.4 The effect of changing conditions on equilibrium (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The relative amounts of all the reactants and products at equilibrium
depend on the conditions of the reaction.
If a system is at equilibrium and a change is made to any of the
conditions, then the system responds to counteract the change.
The effects of changing conditions on a system at equilibrium can
be predicted using Le Chatelier’s Principle.
Students should be able to make qualitative predictions about the
effect of changes on systems at equilibrium when given appropriate
information.
4.6.2.5 The effect of changing concentration (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
If the concentration of one of the reactants or products is changed,
the system is no longer at equilibrium and the concentrations of all
the substances will change until equilibrium is reached again.
If the concentration of a reactant is increased, more products will be
formed until equilibrium is reached again.
If the concentration of a product is decreased, more reactants will
react until equilibrium is reached again.
Students should be able to interpret appropriate given data to
predict the effect of a change in concentration of a reactant or
product on given reactions at equilibrium.
60   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 61 ===
4.6.2.6 The effect of temperature changes on equilibrium (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
If the temperature of a system at equilibrium is increased:
• the relative amount of products at equilibrium increases for an
endothermic reaction
• the relative amount of products at equilibrium decreases for
an exothermic reaction.
If the temperature of a system at equilibrium is decreased:
• the relative amount of products at equilibrium decreases for
an endothermic reaction
• the relative amount of products at equilibrium increases for an
exothermic reaction.
Students should be able to interpret appropriate given data to
predict the effect of a change in temperature on given reactions at
equilibrium.
4.6.2.7 The effect of pressure changes on equilibrium (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
For gaseous reactions at equilibrium:
• an increase in pressure causes the equilibrium position to
shift towards the side with the smaller number of molecules as
shown by the symbol equation for that reaction
• a decrease in pressure causes the equilibrium position to shift
towards the side with the larger number of molecules as
shown by the symbol equation for that reaction.
Students should be able to interpret appropriate given data to
predict the effect of pressure changes on given reactions at
equilibrium.
4.7 Organic chemistry
The chemistry of carbon compounds is so important that it forms a separate branch of chemistry. A
great variety of carbon compounds is possible because carbon atoms can form chains and rings
linked by C-C bonds. This branch of chemistry gets its name from the fact that the main sources of
organic compounds are living, or once-living materials from plants and animals. These sources
include fossil fuels which are a major source of feedstock for the petrochemical industry. Chemists
are able to take organic molecules and modify them in many ways to make new and useful
materials such as polymers, pharmaceuticals, perfumes and flavourings, dyes and detergents.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   61

=== PDF page 62 ===
4.7.1 Carbon compounds as fuels and feedstock
4.7.1.1 Crude oil, hydrocarbons and alkanes
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Crude oil is a finite resource found in rocks. Crude oil is the remains
of an ancient biomass consisting mainly of plankton that was buried
in mud.
Crude oil is a mixture of a very large number of compounds. Most of
the compounds in crude oil are hydrocarbons, which are molecules
made up of hydrogen and carbon atoms only.
Most of the hydrocarbons in crude oil are hydrocarbons called
alkanes. The general formula for the homologous series of alkanes
is CnH2n+2
The first four members of the alkanes are methane, ethane,
propane and butane.
Alkane molecules can be represented in the following forms:
C2H6 or
Students should be able to recognise substances as alkanes given
their formulae in these forms.
Students do not need to know the names of specific alkanes other
than methane, ethane, propane and butane.
WS 1.2
Make models of alkane
molecules using the
molecular modelling kits.
62   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 63 ===
4.7.1.2 Fractional distillation and petrochemicals
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The many hydrocarbons in crude oil may be separated into
fractions, each of which contains molecules with a similar number of
carbon atoms, by fractional distillation.
The fractions can be processed to produce fuels and feedstock for
the petrochemical industry.
Many of the fuels on which we depend for our modern lifestyle,
such as petrol, diesel oil, kerosene, heavy fuel oil and liquefied
petroleum gases, are produced from crude oil.
Many useful materials on which modern life depends are produced
by the petrochemical industry, such as solvents, lubricants,
polymers, detergents.
The vast array of natural and synthetic carbon compounds occur
due to the ability of carbon atoms to form families of similar
compounds.
Students should be able to explain how fractional distillation works
in terms of evaporation and condensation.
Knowledge of the names of other specific fractions or fuels is not
required.
WS 1.2
4.7.1.3 Properties of hydrocarbons
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Some properties of hydrocarbons depend on the size of their
molecules, including boiling point, viscosity and flammability. These
properties influence how hydrocarbons are used as fuels.
Students should be able to recall how boiling point, viscosity and
flammability change with increasing molecular size.
The combustion of hydrocarbon fuels releases energy. During
combustion, the carbon and hydrogen in the fuels are oxidised. The
complete combustion of a hydrocarbon produces carbon dioxide
and water.
Students should be able to write balanced equations for the
complete combustion of hydrocarbons with a given formula.
Knowledge of trends in properties of hydrocarbons is limited to:
• boiling points
• viscosity
• flammability.
WS 1.2, 4.1
Investigate the properties of
different hydrocarbons.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   63

=== PDF page 64 ===
4.7.1.4 Cracking and alkenes
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Hydrocarbons can be broken down (cracked) to produce smaller,
more useful molecules.
Cracking can be done by various methods including catalytic
cracking and steam cracking.
Students should be able to describe in general terms the conditions
used for catalytic cracking and steam cracking.
The products of cracking include alkanes and another type of
hydrocarbon called alkenes.
Alkenes are more reactive than alkanes and react with bromine
water, which is used as a test for alkenes.
Students should be able to recall the colour change when bromine
water reacts with an alkene.
There is a high demand for fuels with small molecules and so some
of the products of cracking are useful as fuels.
Alkenes are used to produce polymers and as starting materials for
the production of many other chemicals.
Students should be able to balance chemical equations as
examples of cracking given the formulae of the reactants and
products.
Students should be able to give examples to illustrate the
usefulness of cracking. They should also be able to explain how
modern life depends on the uses of hydrocarbons.
(For Combined Science: Trilogy and Synergy students do not need
to know the formulae or names of individual alkenes.)
WS 1.2
64   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 65 ===
4.7.2 Reactions of alkenes and alcohols (chemistry only)
4.7.2.1 Structure and formulae of alkenes
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Alkenes are hydrocarbons with a double carbon-carbon bond. The
general formula for the homologous series of alkenes is CnH2n
Alkene molecules are unsaturated because they contain two fewer
hydrogen atoms than the alkane with the same number of carbon
atoms.
The first four members of the homologous series of alkenes are
ethene, propene, butene and pentene.
Alkene molecules can be represented in the following forms:
C3H6
or
Students do not need to know the names of individual alkenes other
than ethene, propene, butene and pentene.
WS 1.2
Recognise substances that
are alkenes from their
names or from given
formulae in these forms.
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
4.7.2.2 Reactions of alkenes
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Alkenes are hydrocarbons with the functional group C=C.
It is the generality of reactions of functional groups that determine
the reactions of organic compounds.
Alkenes react with oxygen in combustion reactions in the same way
as other hydrocarbons, but they tend to burn in air with smoky
flames because of incomplete combustion.
Alkenes react with hydrogen, water and the halogens, by the
addition of atoms across the carbon-carbon double bond so that the
double bond becomes a single carbon-carbon bond.
Students should be able to:
• describe the reactions and conditions for the addition of
hydrogen, water and halogens to alkenes
• draw fully displayed structural formulae of the first four
members of the alkenes and the products of their addition
reactions with hydrogen, water, chlorine, bromine and iodine.
WS 1.2
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   65

=== PDF page 66 ===
4.7.2.3 Alcohols
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Alcohols contain the functional group –OH.
Methanol, ethanol, propanol and butanol are the first four members
of a homologous series of alcohols.
Alcohols can be represented in the following forms:
CH3CH2OH
or
Students should be able to:
• describe what happens when any of the first four alcohols
react with sodium, burn in air, are added to water, react with
an oxidising agent
• recall the main uses of these alcohols.
Aqueous solutions of ethanol are produced when sugar solutions
are fermented using yeast.
Students should know the conditions used for fermentation of sugar
using yeast.
Students should be able to recognise alcohols from their names or
from given formulae.
Students do not need to know the names of individual alcohols
other than methanol, ethanol, propanol and butanol.
Students are not expected to write balanced chemical equations for
the reactions of alcohols other than for combustion reactions.
AT 2, 5, 6
Opportunities when
investigating reactions of
alcohols.
66   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 67 ===
4.7.2.4 Carboxylic acids
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Carboxylic acids have the functional group –COOH.
The first four members of a homologous series of carboxylic acids
are methanoic acid, ethanoic acid, propanoic acid and butanoic
acid.
The structures of carboxylic acids can be represented in the
following forms:
CH3COOH
or
Students should be able to:
• describe what happens when any of the first four carboxylic
acids react with carbonates, dissolve in water, react with
alcohols
• (HT only) explain why carboxylic acids are weak acids in
terms of ionisation and pH (see Strong and weak acids (HT
only) (page 48)).
Students should be able to recognise carboxylic acids from their
names or from given formulae.
Students do not need to know the names of individual carboxylic
acids other than methanoic acid, ethanoic acid, propanoic acid and
butanoic acid.
Students are not expected to write balanced chemical equations for
the reactions of carboxylic acids.
Students do not need to know the names of esters other than ethyl
ethanoate.
AT 2, 5, 6
Opportunities within
investigation of the
reactions of carboxylic
acids.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   67

=== PDF page 68 ===
4.7.3 Synthetic and naturally occurring polymers (chemistry only)
4.7.3.1 Addition polymerisation
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Alkenes can be used to make polymers such as poly(ethene) and
poly(propene) by addition polymerisation.
In addition polymerisation reactions, many small molecules
(monomers) join together to form very large molecules (polymers).
For example:
In addition polymers the repeating unit has the same atoms as the
monomer because no other molecule is formed in the reaction.
WS 1.2
Use models to represent
addition polymerisation.
Students should be able to:
• recognise addition polymers and monomers from diagrams in
the forms shown and from the presence of the functional
group C=C in the monomers
• draw diagrams to represent the formation of a polymer from a
given alkene monomer
• relate the repeating unit to the monomer.
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
68   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 69 ===
4.7.3.2 Condensation polymerisation (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Condensation polymerisation involves monomers with two
functional groups. When these types of monomers react they join
together, usually losing small molecules such as water, and so the
reactions are called condensation reactions.
The simplest polymers are produced from two different monomers
with two of the same functional groups on each monomer.
For example:
ethanediol
and
hexanedioic acid
polymerise to produce a polyester:
WS 1.2
Use models to represent
condensation
polymerisation.
Students should be able to explain the basic principles of
condensation polymerisation by reference to the functional groups
in the monomers and the repeating units in the polymers.
MS 5b
Visualise and represent 2D
and 3D forms including two-
dimensional representations
of 3D objects.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   69

=== PDF page 70 ===
4.7.3.3 Amino acids (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Amino acids have two different functional groups in a molecule.
Amino acids react by condensation polymerisation to produce
polypeptides.
For example: glycine is H2NCH2COOH and polymerises to produce
the polypeptide
Different amino acids can be combined in the same chain to
produce proteins.
4.7.3.4 DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) and other naturally occurring polymers
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) is a large molecule essential for life.
DNA encodes genetic instructions for the development and
functioning of living organisms and viruses.
Most DNA molecules are two polymer chains, made from four
different monomers called nucleotides, in the form of a double helix.
Other naturally occurring polymers important for life include
proteins, starch and cellulose.
Students should be able to name the types of monomers from
which these naturally occurring polymers are made.
4.8 Chemical analysis
Analysts have developed a range of qualitative tests to detect specific chemicals. The tests are
based on reactions that produce a gas with distinctive properties, or a colour change or an
insoluble solid that appears as a precipitate.
Instrumental methods provide fast, sensitive and accurate means of analysing chemicals, and are
particularly useful when the amount of chemical being analysed is small. Forensic scientists and
drug control scientists rely on such instrumental methods in their work.
70   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 71 ===
4.8.1 Purity, formulations and chromatography
4.8.1.1 Pure substances
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
In chemistry, a pure substance is a single element or compound,
not mixed with any other substance.
Pure elements and compounds melt and boil at specific
temperatures. Melting point and boiling point data can be used to
distinguish pure substances from mixtures.
In everyday language, a pure substance can mean a substance
that has had nothing added to it, so it is unadulterated and in its
natural state, eg pure milk.
Students should be able to use melting point and boiling point data
to distinguish pure from impure substances.
WS 2.2, 4.1
4.8.1.2 Formulations
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
A formulation is a mixture that has been designed as a useful
product. Many products are complex mixtures in which each
chemical has a particular purpose. Formulations are made by
mixing the components in carefully measured quantities to ensure
that the product has the required properties. Formulations include
fuels, cleaning agents, paints, medicines, alloys, fertilisers and
foods.
Students should be able to identify formulations given appropriate
information.
Students do not need to know the names of components in
proprietary products.
WS 1.4, 2.2
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   71

=== PDF page 72 ===
4.8.1.3 Chromatography
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Chromatography can be used to separate mixtures and can give
information to help identify substances. Chromatography involves a
stationary phase and a mobile phase. Separation depends on the
distribution of substances between the phases.
The ratio of the distance moved by a compound (centre of spot from
origin) to the distance moved by the solvent can be expressed as its
Rf value:
R f  =  distance moved by substance
distance moved by solvent  
Different compounds have different Rf values in different solvents,
which can be used to help identify the compounds. The compounds
in a mixture may separate into different spots depending on the
solvent but a pure compound will produce a single spot in all
solvents.
Students should be able to:
• explain how paper chromatography separates mixtures
• suggest how chromatographic methods can be used for
distinguishing pure substances from impure substances
• interpret chromatograms and determine R f values from
chromatograms
WS 2.2, 3.1, 2, 3
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
MS 1d
Make estimates of the
results of simple
calculations.
• provide answers to an appropriate number of significant
figures.
MS 2a
Required practical 6: investigate how paper chromatography can be used to separate and tell the
difference between coloured substances. Students should calculate Rf values.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: 1 and 4.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 107).
4.8.2 Identification of common gases
4.8.2.1 Test for hydrogen
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The test for hydrogen uses a burning splint held at the open end of
a test tube of the gas. Hydrogen burns rapidly with a pop sound.
72   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 73 ===
4.8.2.2 Test for oxygen
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The test for oxygen uses a glowing splint inserted into a test tube of
the gas. The splint relights in oxygen.
4.8.2.3 Test for carbon dioxide
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The test for carbon dioxide uses an aqueous solution of calcium
hydroxide (lime water). When carbon dioxide is shaken with or
bubbled through limewater the limewater turns milky (cloudy).
4.8.2.4 Test for chlorine
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The test for chlorine uses litmus paper. When damp litmus paper is
put into chlorine gas the litmus paper is bleached and turns white.
4.8.3 Identification of ions by chemical and spectroscopic means
(chemistry only)
4.8.3.1 Flame tests
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Flame tests can be used to identify some metal ions (cations).
Lithium, sodium, potassium, calcium and copper compounds
produce distinctive colours in flame tests:
• lithium compounds result in a crimson flame
• sodium compounds result in a yellow flame
• potassium compounds result in a lilac flame
• calcium compounds result in an orange-red flame
• copper compounds result in a green flame.
If a sample containing a mixture of ions is used some flame colours
can be masked.
AT 8
An opportunity to
investigate flame colours.
Students should be able to identify species from the results of the
tests in 4.8.3.1 to 4.8.3.5.
Flame colours of other metal ions are not required knowledge.
WS 2.2
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   73

=== PDF page 74 ===
4.8.3.2 Metal hydroxides
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Sodium hydroxide solution can be used to identify some metal ions
(cations).
Solutions of aluminium, calcium and magnesium ions form white
precipitates when sodium hydroxide solution is added but only the
aluminium hydroxide precipitate dissolves in excess sodium
hydroxide solution.
Solutions of copper(II), iron(II) and iron(III) ions form coloured
precipitates when sodium hydroxide solution is added.
Copper(II) forms a blue precipitate, iron(II) a green precipitate and
iron(III) a brown precipitate.
AT 8
An opportunity to make
precipitates of metal
hydroxides.
Students should be able to write balanced equations for the
reactions to produce the insoluble hydroxides.
Students are not expected to write equations for the production of
sodium aluminate.
WS 2.2
4.8.3.3 Carbonates
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Carbonates react with dilute acids to form carbon dioxide gas.
Carbon dioxide can be identified with limewater.
4.8.3.4 Halides
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Halide ions in solution produce precipitates with silver nitrate
solution in the presence of dilute nitric acid. Silver chloride is white,
silver bromide is cream and silver iodide is yellow.
4.8.3.5 Sulfates
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Sulfate ions in solution produce a white precipitate with barium
chloride solution in the presence of dilute hydrochloric acid.
Required practical 7: use of chemical tests to identify the ions in unknown single ionic
compounds covering the ions from sections Flame tests (page 73) to Sulfates (page 74).
74   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 75 ===
AT skills covered by this practical activity: 1 and 8.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities for skills development (page 107).
4.8.3.6 Instrumental methods
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Elements and compounds can be detected and identified using
instrumental methods. Instrumental methods are accurate, sensitive
and rapid.
Students should be able to state advantages of instrumental
methods compared with the chemical tests in this specification.
4.8.3.7 Flame emission spectroscopy
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Flame emission spectroscopy is an example of an instrumental
method used to analyse metal ions in solutions.
The sample is put into a flame and the light given out is passed
through a spectroscope. The output is a line spectrum that can be
analysed to identify the metal ions in the solution and measure their
concentrations.
AT 8
An opportunity to observe
flame spectra using a hand-
held spectroscope.
Students should be able to interpret an instrumental result given
appropriate data in chart or tabular form, when accompanied by a
reference set in the same form, limited to flame emission
spectroscopy.
WS 3.6
MS 4a
4.9 Chemistry of the atmosphere
The Earth’s atmosphere is dynamic and forever changing. The causes of these changes are
sometimes man-made and sometimes part of many natural cycles. Scientists use very complex
software to predict weather and climate change as there are many variables that can influence this.
The problems caused by increased levels of air pollutants require scientists and engineers to
develop solutions that help to reduce the impact of human activity.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   75

=== PDF page 76 ===
4.9.1 The composition and evolution of the Earth's atmosphere
4.9.1.1 The proportions of different gases in the atmosphere
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
For 200 million years, the proportions of different gases in the
atmosphere have been much the same as they are today:
• about four-fifths (approximately 80%) nitrogen
• about one-fifth (approximately 20%) oxygen
• small proportions of various other gases, including carbon
dioxide, water vapour and noble gases.
MS 1c
To use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
4.9.1.2 The Earth's early atmosphere
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Theories about what was in the Earth’s early atmosphere and how
the atmosphere was formed have changed and developed over
time. Evidence for the early atmosphere is limited because of the
time scale of 4.6 billion years.
One theory suggests that during the first billion years of the Earth’s
existence there was intense volcanic activity that released gases
that formed the early atmosphere and water vapour that condensed
to form the oceans. At the start of this period the Earth’s
atmosphere may have been like the atmospheres of Mars and
Venus today, consisting of mainly carbon dioxide with little or no
oxygen gas.
Volcanoes also produced nitrogen which gradually built up in the
atmosphere and there may have been small proportions of methane
and ammonia.
When the oceans formed carbon dioxide dissolved in the water and
carbonates were precipitated producing sediments, reducing the
amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. No knowledge of other
theories is required.
Students should be able to, given appropriate information, interpret
evidence and evaluate different theories about the Earth’s early
atmosphere.
WS 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 3.5, 3.6,
4.1
76   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 77 ===
4.9.1.3 How oxygen increased
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Algae and plants produced the oxygen that is now in the
atmosphere by photosynthesis, which can be represented by the
equation:
Algae first produced oxygen about 2.7 billion years ago and soon
after this oxygen appeared in the atmosphere. Over the next billion
years plants evolved and the percentage of oxygen gradually
increased to a level that enabled animals to evolve.
WS 1.2
An opportunity to show that
aquatic plants produce
oxygen in daylight.
4.9.1.4 How carbon dioxide decreased
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Algae and plants decreased the percentage of carbon dioxide in the
atmosphere by photosynthesis.
Carbon dioxide was also decreased by the formation of
sedimentary rocks and fossil fuels that contain carbon.
Students should be able to:
• describe the main changes in the atmosphere over time and
some of the likely causes of these changes
• describe and explain the formation of deposits of limestone,
coal, crude oil and natural gas.
WS 1.2, 4.1
4.9.2 Carbon dioxide and methane as greenhouse gases
4.9.2.1 Greenhouse gases
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Greenhouse gases in the atmosphere maintain temperatures on
Earth high enough to support life. Water vapour, carbon dioxide and
methane are greenhouse gases.
Students should be able to describe the greenhouse effect in terms
of the interaction of short and long wavelength radiation with matter.
WS 1.2
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   77

=== PDF page 78 ===
4.9.2.2 Human activities which contribute to an increase in greenhouse gases in the
atmosphere
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Some human activities increase the amounts of greenhouse gases
in the atmosphere. These include:
• carbon dioxide
• methane.
Students should be able to recall two human activities that increase
the amounts of each of the greenhouse gases carbon dioxide and
methane.
Based on peer-reviewed evidence, many scientists believe that
human activities will cause the temperature of the Earth’s
atmosphere to increase at the surface and that this will result in
global climate change.
However, it is difficult to model such complex systems as global
climate change. This leads to simplified models, speculation and
opinions presented in the media that may be based on only parts of
the evidence and which may be biased.
Students should be able to:
• evaluate the quality of evidence in a report about global
climate change given appropriate information
• describe uncertainties in the evidence base
• recognise the importance of peer review of results and of
communicating results to a wide range of audiences.
WS 1.2, 1.3, 1.6
4.9.2.3 Global climate change
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
An increase in average global temperature is a major cause of
climate change.
There are several potential effects of global climate change.
Students should be able to:
• describe briefly four potential effects of global climate change
• discuss the scale, risk and environmental implications of
global climate change.
WS 1.5
78   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 79 ===
4.9.2.4 The carbon footprint and its reduction
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The carbon footprint is the total amount of carbon dioxide and other
greenhouse gases emitted over the full life cycle of a product,
service or event.
The carbon footprint can be reduced by reducing emissions of
carbon dioxide and methane.
Students should be able to:
• describe actions to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and
methane
• give reasons why actions may be limited.
WS 1.3
4.9.3 Common atmospheric pollutants and their sources
4.9.3.1 Atmospheric pollutants from fuels
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The combustion of fuels is a major source of atmospheric
pollutants.
Most fuels, including coal, contain carbon and/or hydrogen and may
also contain some sulfur.
The gases released into the atmosphere when a fuel is burned may
include carbon dioxide, water vapour, carbon monoxide, sulfur
dioxide and oxides of nitrogen. Solid particles and unburned
hydrocarbons may also be released that form particulates in the
atmosphere.
Students should be able to:
• describe how carbon monoxide, soot (carbon particles), sulfur
dioxide and oxides of nitrogen are produced by burning fuels
• predict the products of combustion of a fuel given appropriate
information about the composition of the fuel and the
conditions in which it is used.
WS 1.2
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   79

=== PDF page 80 ===
4.9.3.2 Properties and effects of atmospheric pollutants
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Carbon monoxide is a toxic gas. It is colourless and odourless and
so is not easily detected.
Sulfur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen cause respiratory problems in
humans and cause acid rain.
Particulates cause global dimming and health problems for humans.
Students should be able to describe and explain the problems
caused by increased amounts of these pollutants in the air.
WS 1.4
4.10 Using resources
Industries use the Earth’s natural resources to manufacture useful products. In order to operate
sustainably, chemists seek to minimise the use of limited resources, use of energy, waste and
environmental impact in the manufacture of these products. Chemists also aim to develop ways of
disposing of products at the end of their useful life in ways that ensure that materials and stored
energy are utilised. Pollution, disposal of waste products and changing land use has a significant
effect on the environment, and environmental chemists study how human activity has affected the
Earth’s natural cycles, and how damaging effects can be minimised.
80   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 81 ===
4.10.1 Using the Earth's resources and obtaining potable water
4.10.1.1 Using the Earth's resources and sustainable development
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Humans use the Earth’s resources to provide warmth, shelter, food
and transport.
Natural resources, supplemented by agriculture, provide food,
timber, clothing and fuels.
Finite resources from the Earth, oceans and atmosphere are
processed to provide energy and materials.
Chemistry plays an important role in improving agricultural and
industrial processes to provide new products and in sustainable
development, which is development that meets the needs of current
generations without compromising the ability of future generations
to meet their own needs.
Students should be able to:
• state examples of natural products that are supplemented or
replaced by agricultural and synthetic products
• distinguish between finite and renewable resources given
appropriate information.
Students should be able to:
• extract and interpret information about resources from charts,
graphs and tables
WS 3.2
MS 2c, 4a
• use orders of magnitude to evaluate the significance of data. MS 2h
Translate information
between graphical and
numeric form.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   81

=== PDF page 82 ===
4.10.1.2 Potable water
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Water of appropriate quality is essential for life. For humans,
drinking water should have sufficiently low levels of dissolved salts
and microbes. Water that is safe to drink is called potable water.
Potable water is not pure water in the chemical sense because it
contains dissolved substances.
The methods used to produce potable water depend on available
supplies of water and local conditions.
In the United Kingdom (UK), rain provides water with low levels of
dissolved substances (fresh water) that collects in the ground and in
lakes and rivers, and most potable water is produced by:
• choosing an appropriate source of fresh water
• passing the water through filter beds
• sterilising.
Sterilising agents used for potable water include chlorine, ozone or
ultraviolet light.
If supplies of fresh water are limited, desalination of salty water or
sea water may be required. Desalination can be done by distillation
or by processes that use membranes such as reverse osmosis.
These processes require large amounts of energy.
Students should be able to:
• distinguish between potable water and pure water
• describe the differences in treatment of ground water and
salty water
• give reasons for the steps used to produce potable water.
Required practical 8: analysis and purification of water samples from different sources, including
pH, dissolved solids and distillation.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: 2, 3 and 4.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are
given in Key opportunities and skills development (page 107).
82   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 83 ===
4.10.1.3 Waste water treatment
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Urban lifestyles and industrial processes produce large amounts of
waste water that require treatment before being released into the
environment. Sewage and agricultural waste water require removal
of organic matter and harmful microbes. Industrial waste water may
require removal of organic matter and harmful chemicals.
Sewage treatment includes:
• screening and grit removal
• sedimentation to produce sewage sludge and effluent
• anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge
• aerobic biological treatment of effluent.
Students should be able to comment on the relative ease of
obtaining potable water from waste, ground and salt water.
4.10.1.4 Alternative methods of extracting metals (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The Earth’s resources of metal ores are limited.
Copper ores are becoming scarce and new ways of extracting
copper from low-grade ores include phytomining, and bioleaching.
These methods avoid traditional mining methods of digging, moving
and disposing of large amounts of rock.
Phytomining uses plants to absorb metal compounds. The plants
are harvested and then burned to produce ash that contains metal
compounds.
Bioleaching uses bacteria to produce leachate solutions that
contain metal compounds.
The metal compounds can be processed to obtain the metal. For
example, copper can be obtained from solutions of copper
compounds by displacement using scrap iron or by electrolysis.
Students should be able to evaluate alternative biological methods
of metal extraction, given appropriate information.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   83

=== PDF page 84 ===
4.10.2 Life cycle assessment and recycling
4.10.2.1 Life cycle assessment
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Life cycle assessments (LCAs) are carried out to assess the
environmental impact of products in each of these stages:
• extracting and processing raw materials
• manufacturing and packaging
• use and operation during its lifetime
• disposal at the end of its useful life, including transport and
distribution at each stage.
Use of water, resources, energy sources and production of some
wastes can be fairly easily quantified. Allocating numerical values to
pollutant effects is less straightforward and requires value
judgements, so LCA is not a purely objective process.
Selective or abbreviated LCAs can be devised to evaluate a product
but these can be misused to reach pre-determined conclusions, eg
in support of claims for advertising purposes.
Students should be able to carry out simple comparative LCAs for
shopping bags made from plastic and paper.
WS 1.3, 4, 5
LCAs should be done as a
comparison of the impact
on the environment of the
stages in the life of a
product, and only quantified
where data is readily
available for energy, water,
resources and wastes.
Interpret LCAs of materials
or products given
appropriate information.
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
MS 1d
Make estimates of the
results of simple
calculations.
MS 2a
Use an appropriate number
of significant figures.
MS 4a
Translate information
between graphical and
numeric form.
84   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 85 ===
4.10.2.2 Ways of reducing the use of resources
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The reduction in use, reuse and recycling of materials by end users
reduces the use of limited resources, use of energy sources, waste
and environmental impacts.
Metals, glass, building materials, clay ceramics and most plastics
are produced from limited raw materials. Much of the energy for the
processes comes from limited resources. Obtaining raw materials
from the Earth by quarrying and mining causes environmental
impacts.
Some products, such as glass bottles, can be reused. Glass bottles
can be crushed and melted to make different glass products. Other
products cannot be reused and so are recycled for a different use.
Metals can be recycled by melting and recasting or reforming into
different products. The amount of separation required for recycling
depends on the material and the properties required of the final
product. For example, some scrap steel can be added to iron from a
blast furnace to reduce the amount of iron that needs to be
extracted from iron ore.
Students should be able to evaluate ways of reducing the use of
limited resources, given appropriate information.
4.10.3 Using materials (chemistry only)
4.10.3.1 Corrosion and its prevention
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Corrosion is the destruction of materials by chemical reactions with
substances in the environment. Rusting is an example of corrosion.
Both air and water are necessary for iron to rust.
Corrosion can be prevented by applying a coating that acts as a
barrier, such as greasing, painting or electroplating. Aluminium has
an oxide coating that protects the metal from further corrosion.
Some coatings are reactive and contain a more reactive metal to
provide sacrificial protection, eg zinc is used to galvanise iron.
Students should be able to:
• describe experiments and interpret results to show that both
air and water are necessary for rusting
• explain sacrificial protection in terms of relative reactivity.
WS 2.2, 7, 3.5
Investigate the conditions
for rusting.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   85

=== PDF page 86 ===
4.10.3.2 Alloys as useful materials
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Most metals in everyday use are alloys.
Bronze is an alloy of copper and tin. Brass is an alloy of copper and
zinc.
Gold used as jewellery is usually an alloy with silver, copper and
zinc. The proportion of gold in the alloy is measured in carats. 24
carat being 100% (pure gold), and 18 carat being 75% gold.
Steels are alloys of iron that contain specific amounts of carbon and
other metals. High carbon steel is strong but brittle. Low carbon
steel is softer and more easily shaped. Steels containing chromium
and nickel (stainless steels) are hard and resistant to corrosion.
Aluminium alloys are low density.
Students should be able to:
• recall a use of each of the alloys specified
• interpret and evaluate the composition and uses of alloys
other than those specified given appropriate information.
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
86   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 87 ===
4.10.3.3 Ceramics, polymers and composites
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Most of the glass we use is soda-lime glass, made by heating a
mixture of sand, sodium carbonate and limestone. Borosilicate
glass, made from sand and boron trioxide, melts at higher
temperatures than soda-lime glass.
Clay ceramics, including pottery and bricks, are made by shaping
wet clay and then heating in a furnace.
The properties of polymers depend on what monomers they are
made from and the conditions under which they are made. For
example, low density (LD) and high density (HD) poly(ethene) are
produced from ethene.
Thermosoftening polymers melt when they are heated.
Thermosetting polymers do not melt when they are heated.
Students should be able to:
• explain how low density and high density poly(ethene) are
both produced from ethene
• explain the difference between thermosoftening and
thermosetting polymers in terms of their structures.
Most composites are made of two materials, a matrix or binder
surrounding and binding together fibres or fragments of the other
material, which is called the reinforcement.
Students should be able to recall some examples of composites.
Students should be able to, given appropriate information:
• compare quantitatively the physical properties of glass and
clay ceramics, polymers, composites and metals
• explain how the properties of materials are related to their
uses and select appropriate materials.
WS 1.4, 3.5, 3.8
Compare the properties of
thermosetting and
thermosoftening polymers.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   87

=== PDF page 88 ===
4.10.4 The Haber process and the use of NPK fertilisers (chemistry
only)
4.10.4.1 The Haber process
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
The Haber process is used to manufacture ammonia, which can be
used to produce nitrogen-based fertilisers.
The raw materials for the Haber process are nitrogen and
hydrogen.
Students should be able to recall a source for the nitrogen and a
source for the hydrogen used in the Haber process.
The purified gases are passed over a catalyst of iron at a high
temperature (about 450°C) and a high pressure (about 200
atmospheres). Some of the hydrogen and nitrogen reacts to form
ammonia. The reaction is reversible so some of the ammonia
produced breaks down into nitrogen and hydrogen:
nitrogen + hydrogen  ammonia
On cooling, the ammonia liquefies and is removed. The remaining
hydrogen and nitrogen are recycled.
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
(HT only) Students should be able to:
• interpret graphs of reaction conditions versus rate
MS 1a
Recognise and use
expressions in decimal
form.
MS 1c
Use ratios, fractions and
percentages.
• apply the principles of dynamic equilibrium in Reversible
reactions and dynamic equilibrium (page 59) to the Haber
process
• explain the trade-off between rate of production and position
of equilibrium
• explain how the commercially used conditions for the Haber
process are related to the availability and cost of raw
materials and energy supplies, control of equilibrium position
and rate.
WS 3.5, 3.8
88   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 89 ===
4.10.4.2 Production and uses of NPK fertilisers
Content Key opportunities for
skills development
Compounds of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium are used as
fertilisers to improve agricultural productivity. NPK fertilisers contain
compounds of all three elements.
Industrial production of NPK fertilisers can be achieved using a
variety of raw materials in several integrated processes. NPK
fertilisers are formulations of various salts containing appropriate
percentages of the elements.
Ammonia can be used to manufacture ammonium salts and nitric
acid.
Potassium chloride, potassium sulfate and phosphate rock are
obtained by mining, but phosphate rock cannot be used directly as
a fertiliser.
Phosphate rock is treated with nitric acid or sulfuric acid to produce
soluble salts that can be used as fertilisers.
Students should be able to:
• recall the names of the salts produced when phosphate rock
is treated with nitric acid, sulfuric acid and phosphoric acid
• compare the industrial production of fertilisers with laboratory
preparations of the same compounds, given appropriate
information.
AT 4
Prepare an ammonium salt.
4.11 Key ideas
The complex and diverse phenomena of the natural world can be described in terms of a small
number of key ideas in chemistry.
These key ideas are of universal application, and we have embedded them throughout the subject
content. They underpin many aspects of the science assessment and will therefore be assessed
across all papers.
These ideas include:
• matter is composed of tiny particles called atoms and there are about 100 different naturally
occurring types of atoms called elements
• elements show periodic relationships in their chemical and physical properties
• these periodic properties can be explained in terms of the atomic structure of the elements
• atoms bond by either transferring electrons from one atom to another or by sharing electrons
• the shapes of molecules (groups of atoms bonded together) and the way giant structures are
arranged is of great importance in terms of the way they behave
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   89

=== PDF page 90 ===
• there are barriers to reaction so reactions occur at different rates
• chemical reactions take place in only three different ways:
• proton transfer
• electron transfer
• electron sharing
• energy is conserved in chemical reactions so can therefore be neither created or destroyed.
90   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 91 ===
5 Scheme of assessment
Find past papers and mark schemes, and specimen papers for new courses, on our website at 
aqa.org.uk/pastpapers
This specification is designed to be taken over two years.
This is a linear qualification. In order to achieve the award, students must complete all
assessments at the end of the course and in the same series.
GCSE exams and certification for this specification are available for the first time in May/June 2018
and then every May/June for the life of the specification.
All materials are available in English only.
Our GCSE exams in Chemistry include questions that allow students to demonstrate:
• their knowledge and understanding of the content developed in one section or topic,
including the associated mathematical and practical skills or
• their ability to apply mathematical and practical skills to areas of content they are not
normally developed in or
• their ability to draw together different areas of knowledge and understanding within one
answer.
A range of question types will be used, including multiple choice, short answer and those that
require extended responses. Extended response questions will be of sufficient length to allow
students to demonstrate their ability to construct and develop a sustained line of reasoning which is
coherent, relevant, substantiated and logically structured. Extended responses may be prose,
extended calculations, or a combination of both, as appropriate to the question.
5.1 Aims and learning outcomes
Chemistry should be taught in progressively greater depth over the course of Key Stage 3 and Key
Stage 4. GCSE outcomes may reflect or build upon subject content which is typically taught at Key
Stage 3. There is no expectation that teaching of such content should be repeated during the
GCSE course where it has already been covered at an earlier stage.
GCSE study in chemistry provides the foundations for understanding the material world. Scientific
understanding is changing our lives and is vital to the world’s future prosperity, and all students
should be taught essential aspects of the knowledge, methods, processes and uses of science.
They should be helped to appreciate how the complex and diverse phenomena of the natural world
can be described in terms of a small number of key ideas relating to the sciences which are both
inter-linked, and are of universal application. These key ideas include:
• the use of conceptual models and theories to make sense of the observed diversity of natural
phenomena
• the assumption that every effect has one or more cause
• that change is driven by differences between different objects and systems when they
interact
• that many such interactions occur over a distance without direct contact
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   91

=== PDF page 92 ===
• that science progresses through a cycle of hypothesis, practical experimentation,
observation, theory development and review
• that quantitative analysis is a central element both of many theories and of scientific methods
of inquiry.
These key ideas are relevant in different ways and with different emphases in biology, chemistry
and physics: examples of their relevance to chemistry are given below.
The GCSE specification in chemistry should enable students to:
• develop scientific knowledge and conceptual understanding through chemistry
• develop understanding of the nature, processes and methods of science through different
types of scientific enquiries that help them to answer scientific questions about the world
around them
• develop and learn to apply observational, practical, modelling, enquiry and problem-solving
skills, both in the laboratory, in the field and in other learning environments
• develop their ability to evaluate claims based on chemistry through critical analysis of the
methodology, evidence and conclusions, both qualitatively and quantitatively.
Chemistry should be studied in ways that help students to develop curiosity about the natural
world, insight into how science works, and appreciation of its relevance to their everyday lives. The
scope and nature of such study should be broad, coherent, practical and satisfying, and thereby
encourage students to be inspired, motivated and challenged by the subject and its achievements.
5.2 Assessment objectives
Assessment objectives (AOs) are set by Ofqual and are the same across all GCSE Chemistry
specifications and all exam boards.
The exams will measure how students have achieved the following assessment objectives.
• AO1: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of: scientific ideas; scientific techniques
and procedures.
• AO2: Apply knowledge and understanding of: scientific ideas; scientific enquiry, techniques
and procedures.
• AO3: Analyse information and ideas to: interpret and evaluate; make judgments and draw
conclusions; develop and improve experimental procedures.
5.2.1 Assessment objective weightings for GCSE Chemistry
Assessment objectives (AOs) Component
weightings (approx
%)
Overall weighting
(approx %)
Paper 1 Paper 2
AO1 37‒43 37‒43 40
AO2 37‒43 37‒43 40
AO3 17‒23 17‒23 20
Overall weighting of components 50 50 100
92   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 93 ===
5.3 Assessment weightings
The marks awarded on the papers will be scaled to meet the weighting of the components.
Students’ final marks will be calculated by adding together the scaled marks for each component.
Grade boundaries will be set using this total scaled mark. The scaling and total scaled marks are
shown in the table below.
Component Maximum raw mark Scaling factor Maximum scaled mark
Paper 1 100 x1 100
Paper 2 100 x1 100
Total scaled mark: 200
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   93

=== PDF page 94 ===
94   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 95 ===
6 General administration
You can find information about all aspects of administration, as well as all the forms you need, at 
aqa.org.uk/examsadmin
6.1 Entries and codes
You only need to make one entry for each qualification – this will cover all the question papers,
non-exam assessment and certification.
Every specification is given a national discount (classification) code by the Department for
Education (DfE), which indicates its subject area.
If a student takes two specifications with the same discount code:
• further and higher education providers are likely to take the view that they have only
achieved one of the two qualifications
• only one of them will be counted for the purpose of the School and College Performance
tables – the DfE's rules on 'early entry' will determine which one.
Please check this before your students start their course.
Qualification title Tier AQA entry
code
DfE discount
code
AQA GCSE in Chemistry Foundation 8462F TBC
Higher 8462H TBC
This specification complies with:
• Ofqual General conditions of recognition that apply to all regulated qualifications
• Ofqual GCSE qualification level conditions that apply to all GCSEs
• Ofqual GCSE subject level conditions that apply to all GCSEs in this subject
• all other relevant regulatory documents.
The Ofqual qualification accreditation number (QAN) is 601/8757/8.
6.2 Overlaps with other qualifications
There are no overlaps with any other AQA qualifications at this level.
6.3 Awarding grades and reporting results
The qualification will be graded on a nine-point scale: 1 to 9 – where 9 is the best grade.
A student taking Foundation Tier assessments will be awarded a grade within the range of 1 to 5.
Students who fail to reach the minimum standard for grade 1 will be recorded as U (unclassified)
and will not receive a qualification certificate.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   95

=== PDF page 96 ===
A student taking Higher Tier assessments will be awarded a grade within the range of 4 to 9. A
student sitting the Higher tier who just fails to achieve grade 4 will be awarded an allowed grade 3.
Students who fail to reach the minimum standard for the allowed grade 3 will be recorded as U
(unclassified) and will not receive a qualification certificate.
6.4 Resits and shelf life
Students can resit the qualification as many times as they wish, within the shelf life of the
qualification.
6.5 Previous learning and prerequisites
There are no previous learning requirements. Any requirements for entry to a course based on this
specification are at the discretion of schools and colleges.
6.6 Access to assessment: diversity and inclusion
General qualifications are designed to prepare students for a wide range of occupations and
further study. Therefore our qualifications must assess a wide range of competences.
The subject criteria have been assessed to see if any of the skills or knowledge required present
any possible difficulty to any students, whatever their ethnic background, religion, sex, age,
disability or sexuality. If any difficulties were encountered, the criteria were reviewed again to make
sure that tests of specific competences were only included if they were important to the subject.
As members of the Joint Council for Qualifications (JCQ) we participate in the production of the
JCQ document Access Arrangements and Reasonable Adjustments: General and Vocational
qualifications. We follow these guidelines when assessing the needs of individual students who
may require an access arrangement or reasonable adjustment. This document is published on the
JCQ website at jcq.org.uk
6.6.1 Students with disabilities and special needs
We can make arrangements for disabled students and students with special needs to help them
access the assessments, as long as the competences being tested are not changed. Access
arrangements must be agreed before the assessment. For example, a Braille paper would be a
reasonable adjustment for a Braille reader but not for a student who does not read Braille.
We are required by the Equality Act 2010 to make reasonable adjustments to remove or lessen
any disadvantage that affects a disabled student.
If you have students who need access arrangements or reasonable adjustments, you can apply
using the Access arrangements online service at aqa.org.uk/eaqa
6.6.2 Special consideration
We can give special consideration to students who have been disadvantaged at the time of the
assessment through no fault of their own – for example a temporary illness, injury or serious
problem such as the death of a relative. We can only do this after the assessment.
Your exams officer should apply online for special consideration at aqa.org.uk/eaqa
96   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 97 ===
For more information and advice about access arrangements, reasonable adjustments and special
consideration please see aqa.org.uk/access or email accessarrangementsqueries@aqa.org.uk
6.7 Working with AQA for the first time
If your school or college has not previously offered any AQA specification, you need to register as
an AQA centre to offer our specifications to your students. Find out how at aqa.org.uk/
becomeacentre
6.8 Private candidates
A private candidate is someone who enters for exams through an AQA-approved school or college
but is not enrolled as a student there.
If you are a private candidate you may be self-taught, home-schooled or have private tuition, with a
tutor or distance learning organisation. You must be based in the UK.
All GCSE science students need to complete practical experiments as part of their learning. A
minimum of eight experiments are required for single science qualifications and 16 for double
science qualifications. This equips students with essential practical knowledge and experiences,
enables them to put theory into practice and helps them develop skills for higher education.
Private candidates wishing to study GCSE sciences need to find a school or college who will let
them carry out the required practicals. Schools and colleges accepting private candidates must
make provision for them to carry out all of the required practical activities as specified in Practical
assessment (page 101). This is likely to incur a cost. We recommend you contact your local
schools and colleges to organise this as early as possible.
Students won’t be assessed whilst conducting their practical work, but the written exam will include
questions on it. Therefore, candidates lacking hands on experience will be at an immediate
disadvantage.
If you have any queries as a private candidate, you can:
• speak to the exams officer at the school or college where you intend to take your exams
• visit our website at aqa.org.uk/exams-administration
• email: privatecandidates@aqa.org.uk
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   97

=== PDF page 98 ===
98   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 99 ===
7 Mathematical requirements
Students will be required to demonstrate the following mathematics skills in GCSE Chemistry
assessments. Questions will target maths skills at a level of demand appropriate to each subject.
In Foundation Tier papers questions assessing maths requirements will not be lower than that
expected at Key Stage 3 (as outlined in Mathematics Programmes of Study: Key Stage 3, by the
DfE, document reference DFE-00179-2013). In Higher Tier papers questions assessing maths
requirements will not be lower than that of questions and tasks in assessments for the Foundation
Tier in a GCSE Qualification in Mathematics.
1 Arithmetic and numerical computation
a Recognise and use expressions in decimal form
b Recognise and use expressions in standard form
c Use ratios, fractions and percentages
d Make estimates of the results of simple calculations
2 Handling data
a Use an appropriate number of significant figures
b Find arithmetic means
c Construct and interpret frequency tables and diagrams, bar charts and histograms
h Make order of magnitude calculations
3 Algebra
a Understand and use the symbols: =, <, <<, >>, >, ∝ , ~
b Change the subject of an equation
c Substitute numerical values into algebraic equations using appropriate units for physical
quantities
4 Graphs
a Translate information between graphical and numeric form
b Understand that y = mx + c represents a linear relationship
c Plot two variables from experimental or other data
d Determine the slope and intercept of a linear graph
e Draw and use the slope of a tangent to a curve as a measure of rate of change
5 Geometry and trigonometry
b Visualise and represent 2D and 3D forms including two dimensional representations of 3D
objects
c Calculate areas of triangles and rectangles, surface areas and volumes of cubes
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   99

=== PDF page 100 ===
Mathematical skills references are taken from the DfE subject criteria. Where there is a break in a
sequence, the 'missing' references are criteria not applicable to GCSE Chemistry and have been
deliberately omitted from this list.
100   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 101 ===
8 Practical assessment
Practical work is at the heart of chemistry, so we have placed it at the heart of this specification.
There are three interconnected, but separate reasons for doing practical work in schools. They are:
1. To support and consolidate scientific concepts (knowledge and understanding).
This is done by applying and developing what is known and understood of abstract ideas and
models. Through practical work we are able to make sense of new information and
observations, and provide insights into the development of scientific thinking.
2. To develop investigative skills. These transferable skills include:
• devising and investigating testable questions
• identifying and controlling variables
• analysing, interpreting and evaluating data.
3. To build and master practical skills such as:
• using specialist equipment to take measurements
• handling and manipulating equipment with confidence and fluency
• recognising hazards and planning how to minimise risk.
By focusing on the reasons for carrying out a particular practical, teachers will help their students
understand the subject better, to develop the skills of a scientist and to master the manipulative
skills required for further study or jobs in STEM subjects.
Questions in the written exams will draw on the knowledge and understanding students have
gained by carrying out the practical activities listed below. These questions will count for at least
15% of the overall marks for the qualification. Many of our questions will also focus on investigative
skills and how well students can apply what they know to practical situations often in novel
contexts.
The practical handbook will help teachers plan purposeful practical work that develops both
practical and investigative skills and encourages the thinking behind the doing so that they can
reach their potential.
Teachers are encouraged to further develop students’ abilities by providing other opportunities for
practical work throughout the course. Opportunities are signposted in the right-hand column of the
content section of this specification for further skills development.
Our chemistry scheme of work will provide ideas and suggestions for good practical activities that
are manageable with large classes.
8.1 Use of apparatus and techniques
All students are expected to have carried out the required practical activities in Required practical
activities (page 102).
The following list includes opportunities for choice and use of appropriate laboratory apparatus for
a variety of experimental problem-solving and/or enquiry-based activities.
Safety is an overriding requirement for all practical work. Schools and colleges are responsible for
ensuring that appropriate safety procedures are followed whenever their students undertake
practical work, and should undertake full risk assessments.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   101

=== PDF page 102 ===
Use and production of appropriate scientific diagrams to set up and record apparatus and
procedures used in practical work is common to all science subjects and should be included
wherever appropriate.
AT 1–7 are common with combined science. AT 8 is chemistry only.
Apparatus and techniques
AT 1 Use of appropriate apparatus to make and record a range of measurements accurately,
including mass, time, temperature, and volume of liquids and gases (links to A-level AT
a).
AT 2 Safe use of appropriate heating devices and techniques including use of a Bunsen
burner and a water bath or electric heater (links to A-level AT b).
AT 3 Use of appropriate apparatus and techniques for conducting and monitoring chemical
reactions, including appropriate reagents and/or techniques for the measurement of pH
in different situations (links to A-level AT a and d).
AT 4 Safe use of a range of equipment to purify and/or separate chemical mixtures including
evaporation, filtration, crystallisation, chromatography and distillation (links to A-level
AT d and g).
AT 5 Making and recording of appropriate observations during chemical reactions including
changes in temperature and the measurement of rates of reaction by a variety of
methods such as production of gas and colour change (links to A-level AT a and l).
AT 6 Safe use and careful handling of gases, liquids and solids, including careful mixing of
reagents under controlled conditions, using appropriate apparatus to explore chemical
changes and/or products (links to A-level AT a and k).
AT 7 Use of appropriate apparatus and techniques to draw, set up and use electrochemical
cells for separation and production of elements and compounds (links to A-level AT d
and j).
AT 8
(chemist
ry only)
Use of appropriate qualitative reagents and techniques to analyse and identify
unknown samples or products including gas tests, flame tests, precipitation reactions,
and the determination of concentrations of strong acids and strong alkalis (links to A-
level AT d).
8.2 Required practical activities
The following practical activities must be carried out by all students taking GCSE Chemistry.
Following any revision by the Secretary of State of the apparatus or techniques specified, we will
review and revise the required practical activities as appropriate.
Schools and colleges will be informed of any changes in a timely manner and the amended
specification will be published highlighting the changes accordingly.
Teachers are encouraged to vary their approach to these practical activities. Some are more
suitable for highly structured approaches that develop key techniques while others allow
opportunities for students to develop investigative approaches.
This list is not designed to limit the practical activities carried out by students. A rich practical
experience will include more than the eight required practical activities. The explicit teaching of
practical skills will build students’ competence. Many teachers will also use practical approaches to
introduce content knowledge in the course of their normal teaching.
102   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 103 ===
Schools and colleges are required to provide a practical science statement to AQA, that is a true
and accurate written statement, which confirms that it has taken reasonable steps to secure that
each student has:
• completed the required practical activities as detailed in this specification
• made a contemporaneous record of such work undertaken during the activities and the
knowledge, skills and understanding derived from those activities.
We will provide a form for the head of centre to sign. You must submit the form to us by the date
published at aqa.org.uk/science. We will contact schools and colleges directly with the deadline
date and send timely reminders if the form is not received. Failure to send this form counts as
malpractice/maladministration, and may result in formal action or warning for the school or college.
Practicals 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 are common with GCSE Combined Science: Trilogy and GCSE
Combined Science: Synergy. Practicals 2 and 7 are GCSE Chemistry only.
8.2.1 Required practical activity 1
Preparation of a pure, dry sample of a soluble salt from an insoluble oxide or carbonate, using a
Bunsen burner to heat dilute acid and a water bath or electric heater to evaporate the solution.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 2 – safe use of appropriate heating devices and techniques including use of a Bunsen burner
and a water bath or electric heater.
AT 3 – use of appropriate apparatus and techniques for conducting chemical reactions, including
appropriate reagents.
AT 4 – safe use of a range of equipment to purify and/or separate chemical mixtures including
evaporation, filtration, crystallisation.
AT 6 – safe use and careful handling of liquids and solids, including careful mixing of reagents
under controlled conditions.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
8.2.2 Required practical activity 2
(Chemistry only) determination of the reacting volumes of solutions of a strong acid and a strong
alkali by titration.
(HT only) determination of the concentration of one of the solutions in mol/dm3 and g/dm3 from the
reacting volumes and the known concentration of the other solution.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   103

=== PDF page 104 ===
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 1 – use of appropriate apparatus to make and record a range of measurements accurately,
including volume of liquids.
AT 8 – the determination of concentrations of strong acids and strong alkalis.
Key opportunities and skills development
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
MS 1a – recognise and use expressions in decimal form.
MS 1c – use ratios, fractions and percentages.
MS 2a – use an appropriate number of significant figures.
8.2.3 Required practical activity 3
Investigate what happens when aqueous solutions are electrolysed using inert electrodes. This
should be an investigation involving developing a hypothesis.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 3 – use of appropriate apparatus and techniques for conducting and monitoring chemical
reactions.
AT 7 – use of appropriate apparatus and techniques to draw, set up and use electrochemical cells
for separation and production of elements and compounds.
AT 8 – use of appropriate qualitative reagents and techniques to analyse and identify unknown
samples or products including gas tests for hydrogen, oxygen and chlorine.
Key opportunities and skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1– use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
104   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 105 ===
8.2.4 Required practical activity 4
Investigate the variables that affect temperature changes in reacting solutions such as, eg acid
plus metals, acid plus carbonates, neutralisations, displacement of metals.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 1 – use of appropriate apparatus to make and record a range of measurements accurately,
including mass, temperature, and volume of liquids.
AT 3 – use of appropriate apparatus and techniques for conducting and monitoring chemical
reactions.
AT 5 – making and recording of appropriate observations during chemical reactions including
changes in temperature.
AT 6 – safe use and careful handling of gases, liquids and solids, including careful mixing of
reagents under controlled conditions, using appropriate apparatus to explore chemical changes.
Key opportunities and skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 2.7 – evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
MS 1a – recognise and use expressions in decimal form.
MS 2a – use an appropriate number of significant figures.
MS 2b – find arithmetic means.
MS 4a – translate information between graphical and numeric form.
MS 4c – plot two variables from experimental or other data.
8.2.5 Required practical activity 5
Investigate how changes in concentration affect the rates of reactions by a method involving
measuring the volume of a gas produced and a method involving a change in colour or turbidity.
This should be an investigation involving developing a hypothesis.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   105

=== PDF page 106 ===
AT 1 – use of appropriate apparatus to make and record a range of measurements accurately,
including mass, time, temperature, and volume of liquids and gases.
AT 3 – use of appropriate apparatus and techniques for conducting and monitoring chemical
reactions.
AT 5 – making and recording of appropriate observations during chemical reactions including the
measurement of rates of reaction by a variety of methods such as production of gas and colour
change.
AT 6 – safe use and careful handling of gases, liquids and solids, including careful mixing of
reagents under controlled conditions, using appropriate apparatus to explore chemical changes.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments or devise procedures to make observations, produce or characterise a
substance, test hypotheses, check data or explore phenomena.
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 2.7 – evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
MS 1a – recognise and use expressions in decimal form.
MS 1c – use ratios, fractions and percentages.
MS 1d – make estimates of the results of simple calculations.
MS 2a – use an appropriate number of significant figures.
MS 2b – find arithmetic means.
MS 4a – translate information between graphical and numeric form.
MS 4b – understand that y = mx + c represents a linear relationship.
MS 4c – plot two variables from experimental or other data.
MS 4d – determine the slope and intercept of a linear graph.
MS 4e – draw and use the slope of a tangent to a curve as a measure of rate of change.
8.2.6 Required practical activity 6
Investigate how paper chromatography can be used to separate and tell the difference between
coloured substances. Students should calculate Rf values.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 1 – use of appropriate apparatus to make and record a range of measurements accurately.
106   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 107 ===
AT 4 – safe use of a range of equipment to purify and/or separate chemical mixtures including
chromatography.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
8.2.7 Required practical activity 7
Use of chemical tests to identify the ions in unknown single ionic compounds covering the ions
from sections Flame tests (page 73) through to Sulfates (page 74).
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 2 – safe use of a Bunsen burner.
AT 8 – use of appropriate qualitative reagents and techniques to analyse and identify unknown
samples or products including gas tests, flame tests, precipitation reactions.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
8.2.8 Required practical activity 8
Analysis and purification of water samples from different sources, including pH, dissolved solids
and distillation.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques
requirements.
AT 2 – safe use of appropriate heating devices and techniques including use of a Bunsen burner
and a water bath or electric heater.
AT 3 – use of appropriate apparatus and techniques for the measurement of pH in different
situations.
AT 4 – safe use of a range of equipment to purify and/or separate chemical mixtures including
evaporation, distillation.
Key opportunities and skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   107

=== PDF page 108 ===
WS 2.3 – apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, instruments, apparatus, and materials to
select those appropriate to the experiment.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.5 – recognise when to apply a knowledge of sampling techniques to ensure any samples
collected are representative.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using a range of apparatus and
methods.
WS 2.7 – evaluate methods and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
108   Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration

=== PDF page 109 ===
9 Appendix A: periodic table
AQA GCSE Chemistry 8462. GCSE exams June 2018 onwards. Version 1.2 16 January 2026
Visit aqa.org.uk/8462 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration   109

=== PDF page 110 ===
Get help and support
Visit our website for information, guidance, support and resources at aqa.org.uk/8462
You can talk directly to the Chemistry subject team:
E: gcsescience@aqa.org.uk
T: 01483 477 756
aqa.org.uk
Copyright © 2019 AQA and its licensors. All rights reserved.
AQA retains the copyright on all its publications, including the specifications. However, schools and colleges registered with AQA are
permitted to copy material from this specification for their own internal use.
AQA Education (AQA) is a registered charity (number 1073334) and a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales
(company number 3644723). Our registered address is AQA, Devas Street, Manchester M15 6EX.