=== PDF page 1 ===
GCSE
BIOLOGY
(8461)
Specification
For teaching from September 2016 onwards
For exams in 2018 onwards
Version 1.0 21 April 2016
Copyright © 2016 AQA and its licensors. All rights reserved.
AQA retains the copyright on all its publications, including the specifications. However, schools and colleges registered with AQA are permitted to copy 
material from this specification for their own internal use.
AQA Education (AQA) is a registered charity (number 1073334) and a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales (company number 
3644723). Our registered address is AQA, Devas Street, Manchester M15 6EX.
aqa.org.uk
G00568
Get help and support
Visit our website for information, guidance, support and resources at aqa.org.uk/subjects/8461
You can talk directly to the science subject team
E: gcsescience@aqa.org.uk
T: 01483 477 756 


=== PDF page 2 ===
3
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
Contents
1  Introduction 5
1.1  Why choose AQA for GCSE Biology 5
1.2  Support and resources to help you teach 6
2  Specification at a glance 8
2.1  Subject content 8
2.2  Assessments 8
3  Working scientifically 9
4  Subject content 15
4.1  Cell biology 16
4.2  Organisation 24
4.3  Infection and response 31
4.4  Bioenergetics 37
4.5  Homeostasis and response 41
4.6  Inheritance, variation and evolution 51
4.7  Ecology 66
4.8  Key ideas 76
5  Scheme of assessment 77
5.1  Aims and learning outcomes 77
5.2  Assessment objectives 78
5.3  Assessment weightings 79
6  General administration 80
6.1  Entries and codes 80
6.2  Overlaps with other qualifications 80
6.3  Awarding grades and reporting results 80
6.4  Re-sits and shelf life 81
6.5  Previous learning and prerequisites 81
6.6  Access to assessment: diversity and inclusion 81
6.7  Working with AQA for the first time 81
6.8  Private candidates 82
7  Mathematical requirements 83
8  Practical assessment 85
8.1  Use of apparatus and techniques 85
8.2  Required practical activities 86

=== PDF page 3 ===
4
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
Are you using the latest version of this specification?
 • You will always find the most up-to-date version of this specification on our website at 
aqa.org.uk/8461 
 • We will write to you if there are significant changes to this specification.

=== PDF page 4 ===
5
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
1  Introduction
1.1  Why choose AQA for GCSE Biology
Our philosophy: science for all
We believe that science has something to offer every student. That’s why we have a suite of science 
qualifications for Key Stage 4 ‒ to suit students of all abilities and all aspirations.
You’ll see that our GCSE Biology, along with Chemistry and Physics, is a clear straightforward 
specification, with clear straightforward exams, so all your students can realise their potential.
Our specification has been developed with teachers
We’ve involved over a thousand teachers in developing our specification, exams and resources. So you 
can be confident that our GCSE Biology is relevant and interesting to teach and to learn. We’ve ensured 
that:
 • the subject content is presented clearly, in a logical teaching order. We’ve also given teaching 
guidance and signposted opportunities for skills development throughout the specification
 • the subject content and required practicals in our GCSE Combined Science: Trilogy are also in 
our GCSE Biology, Chemistry and Physics. So you have the flexibility to co-teach or to move your 
students between courses
 • all our science qualifications provide opportunities for progression. Our GCSE Biology includes 
progression in the subject content and consistency in the exam questions, so that your students 
have the best preparation for A-level.
Our practicals have been trialled by teachers
There’s no better way to learn about science than through purposeful practical activities as part of day 
to day teaching and learning. Our ten required practicals:
 • are clearly laid out in the specification, so you know exactly what’s required
 • are deliberately open, so you can teach in the way that suits you and your students
 • have already been trialled in schools.
You’ll find even more support and guidance in our practical handbook, which includes 
recommendations and advice from teachers in the trial.
Straightforward exams, so students can give straightforward answers
We’ve improved our question papers. You’ll find that our exams:
 • use more straightforward language and fewer words so they’re easier to understand
 • have fewer contexts so students don’t get confused
 • have questions that increase in difficulty so students feel confident
 • have been written with our GCSE Mathematics and A-level science teams, so students have 
consistency between content and questions.
Over 3,000 students have sat our specimen question papers and they agree that they’re clearer and 
more straightforward than ever.

=== PDF page 5 ===
6
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
We don’t profit from education – you do
We are an educational charity focused on the needs of teachers and students. This means that we 
spend our income on improving the quality of our specifications, exams, resources and support.
You can find out all about our Science qualifications at aqa.org.uk/science
1.2  Support and resources to help you teach
We’ve worked with experienced teachers to provide you with a range of resources that will help you 
confidently plan, teach and prepare for exams.
Teaching resources
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 to see all our teaching resources. They include:
 • additional practice papers to help students prepare for exams
 • schemes of work, written by experienced teachers, including a scheme of work specifically for 
Foundation tier students
 • a practical handbook, including recommendations and advice from teachers who’ve trialled our 
practicals
 • AQA approved textbooks reviewed by experienced senior examiners
 • training courses to help you deliver AQA biology qualifications
 • subject expertise courses for all teachers, from newly-qualified teachers who are just getting started 
to experienced teachers looking for fresh inspiration.
Preparing for exams
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for everything you need to prepare for our exams, including:
 • past papers, mark schemes and examiners’ reports
 • specimen papers and mark schemes for new courses
 • Exampro: a searchable bank of past AQA exam questions
 • exemplar student answers with examiner commentaries.
Analyse your students’ results with Enhanced Results Analysis (ERA)
Find out which questions were the most challenging, how the results compare to previous years and 
where your students need to improve. ERA, our free online results analysis tool, will help you see where 
to focus your teaching. Register at aqa.org.uk/era
For information about results, including maintaining standards over time, grade boundaries and our 
post-results services, visit aqa.org.uk/results
Keep your skills up-to-date with professional development
Wherever you are in your career, there’s always something new to learn. As well as subject-specific 
training, we offer a range of courses to help boost your skills.
 • Improve your teaching skills in areas including differentiation, teaching literacy and meeting Ofsted 
requirements.
 • Prepare for a new role with our leadership and management courses.
You can attend a course at venues around the country, in your school or online – whatever suits your 
needs and availability. Find out more at coursesandevents.aqa.org.uk

=== PDF page 6 ===
7
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
Help and support available
Visit our website for information, guidance, support and resources at aqa.org.uk/8461
If you’d like us to share news and information about this qualification, sign up for emails and updates at 
aqa.org.uk/keepinformedscience
Alternatively, you can call or email our subject team direct.
E: gcsescience@aqa.org.uk
T: 01483 477 756

=== PDF page 7 ===
8
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
2  Specification at a glance
This qualification is linear. Linear means that students will sit all their exams at the end of the course.
2.1  Subject content
1. Cell biology (Page 16)
2. Organisation (Page 24)
3. Infection and response (Page 31)
4. Bioenergetics (Page 37)
5. Homeostasis and response (Page 41)
6. Inheritance, variation and evolution (Page 51)
7. Ecology (Page 66)
8. Key ideas (Page 76)
2.2  Assessments
Paper 1
What’s assessed
Topics 1 – 4: Cell biology; Organisation; 
Infection and response; and Bioenergetics.
How it’s assessed
 • Written exam: 1 hour 45 minutes
 • Foundation and Higher Tier
 • 100 marks
 • 50 % of GCSE
Questions
Multiple choice, structured, closed short 
answer and open response.
 
Paper 2
What’s assessed
Topics 5 – 7: Homeostasis and response; 
Inheritance, variation and evolution; and 
Ecology.
How it’s assessed
 • Written exam: 1 hour 45 minutes
 • Foundation and Higher Tier
 • 100 marks
 • 50 % of GCSE
Questions
Multiple choice, structured, closed short 
answer and open response.
+

=== PDF page 8 ===
9
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
3  Working scientifically
Science is a set of ideas about the material world. We have included all the parts of what good science 
is at GCSE level: whether it be investigating, observing, experimenting or testing out ideas and thinking 
about them. The way scientific ideas flow through the specification will support you in building a deep 
understanding of science with your students. We know this will involve talking about, reading and 
writing about science plus the actual doing, as well as representing science in its many forms both 
mathematically and visually through models.
This specification encourages the development of knowledge and understanding in science through 
opportunities for working scientifically. Working scientifically is the sum of all the activities that scientists 
do. We feel it is so important that we have woven it throughout our specification and written papers.
Our schemes of work will take this further for you and signpost a range of ways to navigate through 
this qualification so your students are engaged and enthused. These free resources support the use 
of mathematics as a tool for thinking through the use of mathematical language in explanations, 
applications and evaluations.
The tables below show examples of the ways working scientifically could be assessed.
1 Development of scientific thinking
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to 
do in an exam
WS 1.1 
Understand how scientific methods and theories 
develop over time.
Give examples to show how scientific methods 
and theories have changed over time.
Explain, with an example, why new data from 
experiments or observations led to changes in 
models or theories.
Decide whether or not given data supports a 
particular theory.
WS 1.2 
Use a variety of models such as representational, 
spatial, descriptive, computational and 
mathematical to solve problems, make 
predictions and to develop scientific explanations 
and understanding of familiar and unfamiliar 
facts.
Recognise/draw/interpret diagrams.
Translate from data to a representation with a 
model.
Use models in explanations, or match features 
of a model to the data from experiments or 
observations that the model describes or 
explains.
Make predictions or calculate quantities based 
on the model or show its limitations.
Give examples of ways in which a model can be 
tested by observation or experiment.

=== PDF page 9 ===
10
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to 
do in an exam
WS 1.3
Appreciate the power and limitations of science 
and consider any ethical issues which may arise.
Explain why data is needed to answer scientific 
questions, and why it may be uncertain, 
incomplete or not available.
Outline a simple ethical argument about the 
rights and wrongs of a new technology.
WS 1.4
Explain everyday and technological applications 
of science; evaluate associated personal, social, 
economic and environmental implications; and 
make decisions based on the evaluation of 
evidence and arguments.
Describe and explain specified examples of the 
technological applications of science.
Describe and evaluate, with the help of data, 
methods that can be used to tackle problems 
caused by human impacts on the environment.
WS 1.5
Evaluate risks both in practical science and the 
wider societal context, including perception of 
risk in relation to data and consequences.
Give examples to show that there are hazards 
associated with science-based technologies 
which have to be considered alongside the 
benefits.
Suggest reasons why the perception of risk is 
often very different from the measured risk (eg 
voluntary vs imposed risks, familiar vs unfamiliar 
risks, visible vs invisible hazards).
WS 1.6
Recognise the importance of peer review of 
results and of communicating results to a range 
of audiences.
Explain that the process of peer review helps to 
detect false claims and to establish a consensus 
about which claims should be regarded as valid.
Explain that reports of scientific developments in 
the popular media are not subject to peer review 
and may be oversimplified, inaccurate or biased.

=== PDF page 10 ===
11
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
2 Experimental skills and strategies
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to 
do in an exam
WS 2.1
Use scientific theories and explanations to 
develop hypotheses.
Suggest a hypothesis to explain given 
observations or data.
WS 2.2
Plan experiments or devise procedures to 
make observations, produce or characterise 
a substance, test hypotheses, check data or 
explore phenomena.
Describe a practical procedure for a specified 
purpose.
Explain why a given practical procedure is well 
designed for its specified purpose.
Explain the need to manipulate and control 
variables.
Identify in a given context:
 • the independent variable as the one that is 
changed or selected by the investigator
 • the dependent variable that is measured for 
each change in the independent variable
 • control variables and be able to explain why 
they are kept the same.
Apply understanding of apparatus and 
techniques to suggest a procedure for a specified 
purpose.
WS 2.3
Apply a knowledge of a range of techniques, 
instruments, apparatus, and materials to select 
those appropriate to the experiment.
Describe/suggest/select the technique, 
instrument, apparatus or material that should be 
used for a particular purpose, and explain why.
WS 2.4
Carry out experiments appropriately having due 
regard for the correct manipulation of apparatus, 
the accuracy of measurements and health and 
safety considerations.
Identify the main hazards in specified practical 
contexts.
Suggest methods of reducing the risk of harm in 
practical contexts.
WS 2.5
Recognise when to apply a knowledge of 
sampling techniques to ensure any samples 
collected are representative.
Suggest and describe an appropriate sampling 
technique in a given context.
WS 2.6
Make and record observations and 
measurements using a range of apparatus and 
methods.
Read measurements off a scale in a practical 
context and record appropriately.
WS 2.7
Evaluate methods and suggest possible 
improvements and further investigations.
Assess whether sufficient, precise measurements 
have been taken in an experiment.
Evaluate methods with a view to determining 
whether or not they are valid.

=== PDF page 11 ===
12
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
3 Analysis and evaluation
Apply the cycle of collecting, presenting and analysing data, including:
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to 
do in an exam
WS 3.1 
Presenting observations and other data using 
appropriate methods.
Construct and interpret frequency tables and 
diagrams, bar charts and histograms.
Plot two variables from experimental or other 
data.
WS 3.2 
Translating data from one form to another.
Translate data between graphical and numeric 
form.
WS 3.3 
Carrying out and represent mathematical and 
statistical analysis.
For example:
 • use an appropriate number of significant 
figures
 • find the arithmetic mean and range of a set of 
data
 • construct and interpret frequency tables and 
diagrams, bar charts and histograms
 • make order of magnitude calculations
 • change the subject of an equation
 • substitute numerical values into algebraic 
equations using appropriate units for physical 
quantities
 • determine the slope and intercept of a linear 
graph
 • draw and use the slope of a tangent to a curve 
as a measure of rate of change
 • understand the physical significance of area 
between a curve and the x-axis and measure 
it by counting squares as appropriate.
WS 3.4 
Representing distributions of results and make 
estimations of uncertainty.
Apply the idea that whenever a measurement is 
made, there is always some uncertainty about 
the result obtained.
Use the range of a set of measurements about 
the mean as a measure of uncertainty.
WS 3.5 
Interpreting observations and other data 
(presented in verbal, diagrammatic, graphical, 
symbolic or numerical form), including identifying 
patterns and trends, making inferences and 
drawing conclusions.
Use data to make predictions.
Recognise or describe patterns and trends in 
data presented in a variety of tabular, graphical 
and other forms.
Draw conclusions from given observations.

=== PDF page 12 ===
13
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to 
do in an exam
WS 3.6 
Presenting reasoned explanations including 
relating data to hypotheses.
Comment on the extent to which data is 
consistent with a given hypothesis.
Identify which of two or more hypotheses 
provides a better explanation of data in a given 
context.
WS 3.7 
Being objective, evaluating data in terms 
of accuracy, precision, repeatability and 
reproducibility and identifying potential sources 
of random and systematic error.
Apply the following ideas to evaluate data to 
suggest improvements to procedures and 
techniques.
 • An accurate measurement is one that is close 
to the true value.
 • Measurements are precise if they cluster 
closely.
 • Measurements are repeatable when repetition, 
under the same conditions by the same 
investigator, gives similar results.
 • Measurements are reproducible if similar 
results are obtained by different investigators 
with different equipment.
 • Measurements are affected by random error 
due to results varying in unpredictable ways; 
these errors can be reduced by making more 
measurements and reporting a mean value.
 • Systematic error is due to measurement 
results differing from the true value by a 
consistent amount each time.
 • Any anomalous values should be examined to 
try to identify the cause and, if a product of a 
poor measurement, ignored.
WS 3.8 
Communicating the scientific rationale for 
investigations, methods used, findings and 
reasoned conclusions through paper-based and 
electronic reports and presentations using verbal, 
diagrammatic, graphical, numerical and symbolic 
forms.
Present coherent and logically structured 
responses, using the ideas in 2 Experimental 
skills and strategies and 3 Analysis and 
evaluation, applied to the required practicals, and 
other practical investigations given appropriate 
information.

=== PDF page 13 ===
14
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4 Scientific vocabulary, quantities, units, symbols and 
nomenclature
Students should be able to: Examples of what students could be asked to 
do in an exam
WS 4.1 
Use scientific vocabulary, terminology and 
definitions.
WS 4.2 
Recognise the importance of scientific quantities 
and understand how they are determined.
WS 4.3 
Use SI units (eg kg, g, mg; km, m, mm; kJ, 
J) and IUPAC chemical nomenclature unless 
inappropriate.
WS 4.4 
Use prefixes and powers of ten for orders of 
magnitude (eg tera, giga, mega, kilo, centi, milli, 
micro and nano).
WS 4.5 
Interconvert units.
WS 4.6 
Use an appropriate number of significant figures 
in calculation.
The knowledge and skills in this section apply 
across the specification, including the required 
practicals.

=== PDF page 14 ===
15
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4  Subject content
This specification is presented in a two column format. 
The left hand column contains the specification content that all students must cover, and that can be 
assessed in the written papers. 
The right hand column exemplifies some key opportunities for the following skills to be developed: 
WS refers to Working scientifically, MS refers to Mathematical requirements and AT refers to 
Use of apparatus and techniques. These are not the only opportunities. Teachers are encouraged to 
introduce all of these skills where appropriate throughout the course.
Each topic begins with an overview. The overview puts the topic into a broader context and is intended 
to encourage an overarching approach to both the teaching and learning of each of the topic areas. It is 
not directly assessed. Any assessable content in this overview is replicated in the left hand column.
Most of the content is common with and co-teachable with GCSE Combined Science: Trilogy. Content 
that is only applicable to biology is indicated by (biology only) either next to the topic heading where it 
applies to the whole topic or immediately preceding each paragraph or bullet point as applicable. 
Content that is only applicable to Higher Tier is indicated by (HT only) either next to the topic heading 
where it applies to the whole topic or immediately preceding each paragraph or bullet point as 
applicable.
It is good practice to teach and develop all of the mathematical skills throughout the course. 
Some mathematical skills will only be assessed in certain subject areas. These are detailed in 
Mathematical requirements.
Science is a practical subject. Details of the assessment of required practicals can be found in 
Practical assessment.
Working scientifically and Use of apparatus and techniques skills will be assessed across all papers.
Fundamental biological concepts and principles
Students should have a basic understanding of the following biological principles and be able to apply 
them in either paper:
 • The structure and functioning of cells and how they divide by mitosis and meiosis from sections 
Cell biology and Meiosis.
 • That variation occurs when gametes fuse at fertilisation from section 
Sexual and asexual reproduction.
 • The two essential reactions for life on Earth: photosynthesis and respiration from sections 
Photosynthetic reaction and Aerobic and anaerobic respiration.
 • Metabolism is the sum of all the reactions happening in a cell or organism, in which molecules are 
made or broken down from section Metabolism. 
 • All molecules are recycled between the living world and the environment to sustain life from section 
How materials are cycled.
Students should be able to recall and use this knowledge in questions that link different areas of the 
specification to develop coherent arguments and explanations.

=== PDF page 15 ===
16
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.1  Cell biology
Cells are the basic unit of all forms of life. In this section we explore how structural differences between 
types of cells enables them to perform specific functions within the organism. These differences in cells 
are controlled by genes in the nucleus. For an organism to grow, cells must divide by mitosis producing 
two new identical cells. 
If cells are isolated at an early stage of growth before they have become too specialised, they can retain 
their ability to grow into a range of different types of cells. This phenomenon has led to the development 
of stem cell technology. This is a new branch of medicine that allows doctors to repair damaged organs 
by growing new tissue from stem cells.
4.1.1  Cell structure
4.1.1.1  Eukaryotes and prokaryotes
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Plant and animal cells (eukaryotic cells) have a cell membrane, 
cytoplasm and genetic material enclosed in a nucleus.
Bacterial cells (prokaryotic cells) are much smaller in comparison. They 
have cytoplasm and a cell membrane surrounded by a cell wall. The 
genetic material is not enclosed in a nucleus. It is a single DNA loop and 
there may be one or more small rings of DNA called plasmids.
Students should be able to demonstrate an understanding of the scale 
and size of cells and be able to make order of magnitude calculations, 
including the use of standard form.
MS 1b, 2a, 2h
WS 4.4
Use prefixes centi, milli, 
micro and nano.
4.1.1.2  Animal and plant cells
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain how the main sub-cellular structures, 
including the nucleus, cell membranes, mitochondria, chloroplasts in 
plant cells and plasmids in bacterial cells are related to their functions.
Most animal cells have the following parts:
 • a nucleus
 • cytoplasm
 • a cell membrane
 • mitochondria
 • ribosomes.
In addition to the parts found in animal cells, plant cells often have:
 • chloroplasts
 • a permanent vacuole filled with cell sap.
Plant and algal cells also have a cell wall made of cellulose, which 
strengthens the cell.
WS 1.2
Recognise, draw and 
interpret images of cells.

=== PDF page 16 ===
17
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to use estimations and explain when they 
should be used to judge the relative size or area of sub-cellular 
structures.
MS 1d, 3a
AT 7
Images of cells in videos, 
bioviewers, photographs 
and micrographs can be 
used as comparison for 
students own drawings.
Required practical activity 1: use a light microscope to observe, draw and label a selection of plant 
and animal cells. A magnification scale must be included.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1 and 7.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are given in 
Key opportunities for skills development.
4.1.1.3  Cell specialisation
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to, when provided with appropriate information, 
explain how the structure of different types of cell relate to their function 
in a tissue, an organ or organ system, or the whole organism.
Cells may be specialised to carry out a particular function:
 • sperm cells, nerve cells and muscle cells in animals
 • root hair cells, xylem and phloem cells in plants.
4.1.1.4  Cell differentiation
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain the importance of cell differentiation.
As an organism develops, cells differentiate to form different types of 
cells.
 • Most types of animal cell differentiate at an early stage.
 • Many types of plant cells retain the ability to differentiate throughout 
life.
In mature animals, cell division is mainly restricted to repair and 
replacement. As a cell differentiates it acquires different sub-cellular 
structures to enable it to carry out a certain function. It has become a 
specialised cell.

=== PDF page 17 ===
18
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.1.1.5  Microscopy
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to:
 • understand how microscopy techniques have developed over time
 • explain how electron microscopy has increased understanding of 
sub-cellular structures.
Limited to the differences in magnification and resolution.
An electron microscope has much higher magnification and resolving 
power than a light microscope. This means that it can be used to 
study cells in much finer detail. This has enabled biologists to see and 
understand many more sub-cellular structures.
WS 1.1
Students should be able to carry out calculations involving 
magnification, real size and image size using the formula:
magni/f_ication = size/uni00A0of/uni00A0image
size/uni00A0of/uni00A0real/uni00A0object
Students should be able to express answers in standard form if 
appropriate.
MS 1a, 1b, 2h, 3b
WS 4.4
Use prefixes centi, milli, 
micro and nano.

=== PDF page 18 ===
19
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.1.1.6  Culturing microorganisms (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Bacteria multiply by simple cell division (binary fission) as often as 
once every 20 minutes if they have enough nutrients and a suitable 
temperature.
Bacteria can be grown in a nutrient broth solution or as colonies on an 
agar gel plate.
Uncontaminated cultures of microorganisms are required for 
investigating the action of disinfectants and antibiotics.
MS 1a, 1b, 1d, 2a, 2h
Calculate the number of 
bacteria in a population 
after a certain time if given 
the mean division time.
MS 5c
Calculate cross-sectional 
areas of colonies or clear 
areas around colonies 
using πr².
Students should be able to describe how to prepare an uncontaminated 
culture using aseptic technique.
They should be able to explain why:
 • Petri dishes and culture media must be sterilised before use
 • inoculating loops used to transfer microorganisms to the media must 
be sterilised by passing them through a flame
 • the lid of the Petri dish should be secured with adhesive tape and 
stored upside down
 • in school laboratories, cultures should generally be incubated at 
25°C.
WS 2.2, 2.4
Students should be able to calculate cross-sectional areas of colonies or 
clear areas around colonies using πr².
MS 5c
Students should be able to calculate the number of bacteria in a 
population after a certain time if given the mean division time. 
MS 1a, 2a, 2h
(HT only) Students should be able to express the answer in standard 
form.
MS 1b
Required practical activity 2: investigate the effect of antiseptics or antibiotics on bacterial growth 
using agar plates and measuring zones of inhibition.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1, 3, 4 and 8.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are given in 
Key opportunities for skills development. 
There are links with this practical to Antibiotics and painkillers.

=== PDF page 19 ===
20
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.1.2  Cell division
4.1.2.1  Chromosomes
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
The nucleus of a cell contains chromosomes made of DNA molecules. 
Each chromosome carries a large number of genes.
In body cells the chromosomes are normally found in pairs.
WS 1.2
Use models and analogies 
to develop explanations of 
how cells divide.
4.1.2.2  Mitosis and the cell cycle
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Cells divide in a series of stages called the cell cycle. Students should 
be able to describe the stages of the cell cycle, including mitosis.
During the cell cycle the genetic material is doubled and then divided 
into two identical cells.
Before a cell can divide it needs to grow and increase the number of 
sub-cellular structures such as ribosomes and mitochondria. The DNA 
replicates to form two copies of each chromosome.
In mitosis one set of chromosomes is pulled to each end of the cell and 
the nucleus divides.
Finally the cytoplasm and cell membranes divide to form two identical 
cells.
Students need to understand the three overall stages of the cell cycle 
but do not need to know the different phases of the mitosis stage.
Cell division by mitosis is important in the growth and development of 
multicellular organisms.
Students should be able to recognise and describe situations in given 
contexts where mitosis is occurring.

=== PDF page 20 ===
21
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.1.2.3  Stem cells
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
A stem cell is an undifferentiated cell of an organism which is capable of 
giving rise to many more cells of the same type, and from which certain 
other cells can arise from differentiation.
Students should be able to describe the function of stem cells in 
embryos, in adult animals and in the meristems in plants.
Stem cells from human embryos can be cloned and made to 
differentiate into most different types of human cells.
Stem cells from adult bone marrow can form many types of cells 
including blood cells.
Meristem tissue in plants can differentiate into any type of plant cell, 
throughout the life of the plant.
Knowledge and understanding of stem cell techniques are not required.
Treatment with stem cells may be able to help conditions such as 
diabetes and paralysis.
In therapeutic cloning an embryo is produced with the same genes as 
the patient. Stem cells from the embryo are not rejected by the patient’s 
body so they may be used for medical treatment.
The use of stem cells has potential risks such as transfer of viral 
infection, and some people have ethical or religious objections.
Stem cells from meristems in plants can be used to produce clones of 
plants quickly and economically.
 • Rare species can be cloned to protect from extinction.
 • Crop plants with special features such as disease resistance can be 
cloned to produce large numbers of identical plants for farmers.
WS 1.3
Evaluate the practical 
risks and benefits, as 
well as social and ethical 
issues, of the use of stem 
cells in medical research 
and treatments.

=== PDF page 21 ===
22
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.1.3  Transport in cells
4.1.3.1  Diffusion
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Substances may move into and out of cells across the cell membranes 
via diffusion.
Diffusion is the spreading out of the particles of any substance in 
solution, or particles of a gas, resulting in a net movement from an area 
of higher concentration to an area of lower concentration.
Some of the substances transported in and out of cells by diffusion are 
oxygen and carbon dioxide in gas exchange, and of the waste product 
urea from cells into the blood plasma for excretion in the kidney.
Students should be able to explain how different factors affect the rate 
of diffusion.
Factors which affect the rate of diffusion are:
 • the difference in concentrations (concentration gradient)
 • the temperature
 • the surface area of the membrane.
A single-celled organism has a relatively large surface area to volume 
ratio. This allows sufficient transport of molecules into and out of the cell 
to meet the needs of the organism.
WS 1.2
Recognise, draw and 
interpret diagrams that 
model diffusion.
WS 1.5
Use of isotonic drinks 
and high energy drinks in 
sport.
Students should be able to calculate and compare surface area to 
volume ratios.
Students should be able to explain the need for exchange surfaces and 
a transport system in multicellular organisms in terms of surface area to 
volume ratio.
Students should be able to explain how the small intestine and lungs in 
mammals, gills in fish, and the roots and leaves in plants, are adapted 
for exchanging materials.
In multicellular organisms, surfaces and organ systems are specialised 
for exchanging materials. This is to allow sufficient molecules to 
be transported into and out of cells for the organism’s needs. The 
effectiveness of an exchange surface is increased by:
 • having a large surface area
 • a membrane that is thin, to provide a short diffusion path
 • (in animals) having an efficient blood supply
 • (in animals, for gaseous exchange) being ventilated.
MS 1c, 5c

=== PDF page 22 ===
23
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.1.3.2  Osmosis
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Water may move across cell membranes via osmosis. Osmosis is the 
diffusion of water from a dilute solution to a concentrated solution 
through a partially permeable membrane.
WS 1.2
Recognise, draw and 
interpret diagrams that 
model osmosis.
Students should be able to:
 • use simple compound measures of rate of water uptake
 • use percentages
 • calculate percentage gain and loss of mass of plant tissue.
MS 1a, 1c
Students should be able to plot, draw and interpret appropriate graphs. MS 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d
Required practical activity 3: investigate the effect of a range of concentrations of salt or sugar 
solutions on the mass of plant tissue.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1, 3 and 5.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are given in 
Key opportunities for skills development. 
4.1.3.3  Active transport
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Active transport moves substances from a more dilute solution to a more 
concentrated solution (against a concentration gradient). This requires 
energy from respiration.
Active transport allows mineral ions to be absorbed into plant root hairs 
from very dilute solutions in the soil. Plants require ions for healthy 
growth.
It also allows sugar molecules to be absorbed from lower concentrations 
in the gut into the blood which has a higher sugar concentration. Sugar 
molecules are used for cell respiration.
Students should be able to:
 • describe how substances are transported into and out of cells by 
diffusion, osmosis and active transport
 • explain the differences between the three processes.
There are links 
with this content to 
Cell specialisation.

=== PDF page 23 ===
24
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.2  Organisation
In this section we will learn about the human digestive system which provides the body with nutrients 
and the respiratory system that provides it with oxygen and removes carbon dioxide. In each case 
they provide dissolved materials that need to be moved quickly around the body in the blood by the 
circulatory system. 
Damage to any of these systems can be debilitating if not fatal. Although there has been huge progress 
in surgical techniques, especially with regard to coronary heart disease, many interventions would not 
be necessary if individuals reduced their risks through improved diet and lifestyle. 
We will also learn how the plant’s transport system is dependent on environmental conditions to ensure 
that leaf cells are provided with the water and carbon dioxide that they need for photosynthesis.
4.2.1  Principles of organisation
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Cells are the basic building blocks of all living organisms.
A tissue is a group of cells with a similar structure and function.
Organs are aggregations of tissues performing specific functions.
Organs are organised into organ systems, which work together to form 
organisms.
MS 1c
Students should be 
able to develop an 
understanding of size 
and scale in relation to 
cells, tissues, organs and 
systems.
4.2.2  Animal tissues, organs and organ systems
4.2.2.1  The human digestive system
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
This section assumes knowledge of the digestive system studied in Key 
Stage 3 science.
The digestive system is an example of an organ system in which several 
organs work together to digest and absorb food.
Students should be able to relate knowledge of enzymes to Metabolism.
Students should be able to describe the nature of enzyme molecules 
and relate their activity to temperature and pH changes.
Students should be able to carry out rate calculations for chemical 
reactions.
Enzymes catalyse specific reactions in living organisms due to the shape 
of their active site.
MS 1a, 1c

=== PDF page 24 ===
25
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to use the ‘lock and key theory’ as a simplified 
model to explain enzyme action.
Students should be able to recall the sites of production and the action 
of amylase, proteases and lipases.
Students should be able to understand simple word equations but no 
chemical symbol equations are required.
Digestive enzymes convert food into small soluble molecules that can be 
absorbed into the bloodstream.
Carbohydrases break down carbohydrates to simple sugars. Amylase is 
a carbohydrase which breaks down starch.
Proteases break down proteins to amino acids.
Lipases break down lipids (fats) to glycerol and fatty acids.
The products of digestion are used to build new carbohydrates, lipids 
and proteins. Some glucose is used in respiration.
Bile is made in the liver and stored in the gall bladder. It is alkaline to 
neutralise hydrochloric acid from the stomach. It also emulsifies fat 
to form small droplets which increases the surface area. The alkaline 
conditions and large surface area increase the rate of fat breakdown by 
lipase.
WS 1.2
Students should be able 
to use other models to 
explain enzyme action.
Required practical activity 4: use qualitative reagents to test for a range of carbohydrates, lipids and 
proteins.
To include: Benedict’s test for sugars; iodine test for starch; and Biuret reagent for protein.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 2 and 8.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are given in 
Key opportunities for skills development.
Required practical activity 5: investigate the effect of pH on the rate of reaction of amylase enzyme.
Students should use a continuous sampling technique to determine the time taken to completely 
digest a starch solution at a range of pH values. Iodine reagent is to be used to test for starch every 30 
seconds. Temperature must be controlled by use of a water bath or electric heater.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1, 2, 5 and 8.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are given in 
Key opportunities for skills development.

=== PDF page 25 ===
26
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.2.2.2  The heart and blood vessels
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should know the structure and functioning of the human heart 
and lungs, including how lungs are adapted for gaseous exchange.
The heart is an organ that pumps blood around the body in a double 
circulatory system. The right ventricle pumps blood to the lungs where 
gas exchange takes place. The left ventricle pumps blood around the 
rest of the body.
Knowledge of the blood vessels associated with the heart is limited to 
the aorta, vena cava, pulmonary artery, pulmonary vein and coronary 
arteries. Knowledge of the names of the heart valves is not required.
Knowledge of the lungs is restricted to the trachea, bronchi, alveoli and 
the capillary network surrounding the alveoli.
The natural resting heart rate is controlled by a group of cells located 
in the right atrium that act as a pacemaker. Artificial pacemakers are 
electrical devices used to correct irregularities in the heart rate.
The body contains three different types of blood vessel:
 • arteries
 • veins
 • capillaries.
Students should be able to explain how the structure of these vessels 
relates to their functions.
Students should be able to use simple compound measures such as 
rate and carry out rate calculations for blood flow.
MS 1a, 1c
4.2.2.3  Blood
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Blood is a tissue consisting of plasma, in which the red blood cells, 
white blood cells and platelets are suspended.
Students should know the functions of each of these blood components.
AT 7
Observing and drawing 
blood cells seen under a 
microscope.
WS 1.5
Evaluate risks related to 
use of blood products.
Students should be able to recognise different types of blood cells in 
a photograph or diagram, and explain how they are adapted to their 
functions.
WS 3.5

=== PDF page 26 ===
27
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.2.2.4  Coronary heart disease: a non-communicable disease
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages 
of treating cardiovascular diseases by drugs, mechanical devices or 
transplant.
In coronary heart disease layers of fatty material build up inside the 
coronary arteries, narrowing them. This reduces the flow of blood 
through the coronary arteries, resulting in a lack of oxygen for the heart 
muscle. Stents are used to keep the coronary arteries open. Statins are 
widely used to reduce blood cholesterol levels which slows down the 
rate of fatty material deposit.
In some people heart valves may become faulty, preventing the valve 
from opening fully, or the heart valve might develop a leak. Students 
should understand the consequences of faulty valves. Faulty heart 
valves can be replaced using biological or mechanical valves.
In the case of heart failure a donor heart, or heart and lungs can be 
transplanted. Artificial hearts are occasionally used to keep patients alive 
whilst waiting for a heart transplant, or to allow the heart to rest as an 
aid to recovery.
WS 1.4
WS 1.3
Evaluate methods of 
treatment bearing in 
mind the benefits and 
risks associated with the 
treatment.
4.2.2.5  Health issues
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe the relationship between health and 
disease and the interactions between different types of disease.
Health is the state of physical and mental well-being.
Diseases, both communicable and non-communicable, are major 
causes of ill health. Other factors including diet, stress and life situations 
may have a profound effect on both physical and mental health.
Different types of disease may interact.
 • Defects in the immune system mean that an individual is more likely 
to suffer from infectious diseases.
 • Viruses living in cells can be the trigger for cancers.
 • Immune reactions initially caused by a pathogen can trigger allergies 
such as skin rashes and asthma.
 • Severe physical ill health can lead to depression and other mental 
illness.
Students should be able to translate disease incidence information 
between graphical and numerical forms, construct and interpret 
frequency tables and diagrams, bar charts and histograms, and use a 
scatter diagram to identify a correlation between two variables.
MS 2c, 2g, 4a
Students should understand the principles of sampling as applied to 
scientific data, including epidemiological data.
MS 2d

=== PDF page 27 ===
28
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.2.2.6  The effect of lifestyle on some non-communicable diseases
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to:
 • discuss the human and financial cost of these non-communicable 
diseases to an individual, a local community, a nation or globally
 • explain the effect of lifestyle factors including diet, alcohol and 
smoking on the incidence of non-communicable diseases at local, 
national and global levels.
WS 1.4
Risk factors are linked to an increased rate of a disease.
They can be:
 • aspects of a person’s lifestyle
 • substances in the person’s body or environment.
A causal mechanism has been proven for some risk factors, but not in 
others.
 • The effects of diet, smoking and exercise on cardiovascular disease.
 • Obesity as a risk factor for Type 2 diabetes.
 • The effect of alcohol on the liver and brain function.
 • The effect of smoking on lung disease and lung cancer.
 • The effects of smoking and alcohol on unborn babies.
 • Carcinogens, including ionising radiation, as risk factors in cancer.
Many diseases are caused by the interaction of a number of factors.
WS 1.5
Interpret data about risk 
factors for specified 
diseases.
Students should be able to understand the principles of sampling as 
applied to scientific data in terms of risk factors.
MS 2d
Students should be able to translate information between graphical 
and numerical forms; and extract and interpret information from charts, 
graphs and tables in terms of risk factors.
MS 2c, 4a
Students should be able to use a scatter diagram to identify a correlation 
between two variables in terms of risk factors.
MS 2g

=== PDF page 28 ===
29
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.2.2.7  Cancer
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe cancer as the result of changes in 
cells that lead to uncontrolled growth and division.
Benign tumours are growths of abnormal cells which are contained in 
one area, usually within a membrane. They do not invade other parts of 
the body.
Malignant tumour cells are cancers. They invade neighbouring tissues 
and spread to different parts of the body in the blood where they form 
secondary tumours.
Scientists have identified lifestyle risk factors for various types of cancer. 
There are also genetic risk factors for some cancers.
4.2.3  Plant tissues, organs and systems
4.2.3.1  Plant tissues
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain how the structures of plant tissues 
are related to their functions.
Plant tissues include:
 • epidermal tissues
 • palisade mesophyll
 • spongy mesophyll
 • xylem and phloem
 • meristem tissue found at the growing tips of shoots and roots.
The leaf is a plant organ. Knowledge limited to epidermis, palisade and 
spongy mesophyll, xylem and phloem, and guard cells surrounding 
stomata.
AT 7
Observation and drawing 
of a transverse section of 
leaf.

=== PDF page 29 ===
30
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.2.3.2  Plant organ system
Content Key opportunities for skills development
Students should be able to explain how the structure of 
root hair cells, xylem and phloem are adapted to their 
functions.
Students should be able to explain the effect of 
changing temperature, humidity, air movement and 
light intensity on the rate of transpiration.
AT 3, 4, 5
Measure the rate of transpiration by the 
uptake of water.
AT 6, 7
Investigate the distribution of stomata and 
guard cells.
MS 2a, 2d, 5c
Process data from investigations involving 
stomata and transpiration rates to find 
arithmetic means, understand the principles 
of sampling and calculate surface areas 
and volumes.
Students should be able to understand and use simple 
compound measures such as the rate of transpiration.
MS 1a, 1c
Students should be able to:
 • translate information between graphical and 
numerical form
 • plot and draw appropriate graphs, selecting 
appropriate scales for axes
 • extract and interpret information from graphs, charts 
and tables.
MS 2c, 4a, 4c
The roots, stem and leaves form a plant organ system 
for transport of substances around the plant.
Students should be able to describe the process of 
transpiration and translocation, including the structure 
and function of the stomata.
Root hair cells are adapted for the efficient uptake of 
water by osmosis, and mineral ions by active transport.
Xylem tissue transports water and mineral ions from 
the roots to the stems and leaves. It is composed of 
hollow tubes strengthened by lignin adapted for the 
transport of water in the transpiration stream.
The role of stomata and guard cells are to control gas 
exchange and water loss.
Phloem tissue transports dissolved sugars from the 
leaves to the rest of the plant for immediate use or 
storage. The movement of food molecules through 
phloem tissue is called translocation.
Phloem is composed of tubes of elongated cells. Cell 
sap can move from one phloem cell to the next through 
pores in the end walls.
Detailed structure of phloem tissue or the mechanism 
of transport is not required.

=== PDF page 30 ===
31
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.3  Infection and response
Pathogens are microorganisms such as viruses and bacteria that cause infectious diseases in animals 
and plants. They depend on their host to provide the conditions and nutrients that they need to grow 
and reproduce. They frequently produce toxins that damage tissues and make us feel ill. 
This section will explore how we can avoid diseases by reducing contact with them, as well as how the 
body uses barriers against pathogens. Once inside the body our immune system is triggered which is 
usually strong enough to destroy the pathogen and prevent disease. 
When at risk from unusual or dangerous diseases our body’s natural system can be enhanced by the 
use of vaccination. Since the 1940s a range of antibiotics have been developed which have proved 
successful against a number of lethal diseases caused by bacteria. Unfortunately many groups of 
bacteria have now become resistant to these antibiotics. The race is now on to develop a new set of 
antibiotics.
4.3.1  Communicable diseases
4.3.1.1  Communicable (infectious) diseases
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain how diseases caused by viruses, 
bacteria, protists and fungi are spread in animals and plants.
Students should be able to explain how the spread of diseases can be 
reduced or prevented.
Pathogens are microorganisms that cause infectious disease. Pathogens 
may be viruses, bacteria, protists or fungi. They may infect plants or 
animals and can be spread by direct contact, by water or by air.
Bacteria and viruses may reproduce rapidly inside the body.
Bacteria may produce poisons (toxins) that damage tissues and make us 
feel ill.
Viruses live and reproduce inside cells, causing cell damage.
WS 1.4

=== PDF page 31 ===
32
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.3.1.2  Viral diseases
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Measles is a viral disease showing symptoms of fever and a red skin 
rash. Measles is a serious illness that can be fatal if complications arise. 
For this reason most young children are vaccinated against measles. 
The measles virus is spread by inhalation of droplets from sneezes and 
coughs.
HIV initially causes a flu-like illness. Unless successfully controlled with 
antiretroviral drugs the virus attacks the body’s immune cells. Late 
stage HIV infection, or AIDS, occurs when the body’s immune system 
becomes so badly damaged it can no longer deal with other infections 
or cancers. HIV is spread by sexual contact or exchange of body fluids 
such as blood which occurs when drug users share needles.
Tobacco mosaic virus (TMV) is a widespread plant pathogen affecting 
many species of plants including tomatoes. It gives a distinctive ‘mosaic’ 
pattern of discolouration on the leaves which affects the growth of the 
plant due to lack of photosynthesis.
4.3.1.3  Bacterial diseases
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Salmonella food poisoning is spread by bacteria ingested in food, 
or on food prepared in unhygienic conditions. In the UK, poultry are 
vaccinated against Salmonella to control the spread. Fever, abdominal 
cramps, vomiting and diarrhoea are caused by the bacteria and the 
toxins they secrete.
Gonorrhoea is a sexually transmitted disease (STD) with symptoms of 
a thick yellow or green discharge from the vagina or penis and pain on 
urinating. It is caused by a bacterium and was easily treated with the 
antibiotic penicillin until many resistant strains appeared. Gonorrhoea 
is spread by sexual contact. The spread can be controlled by treatment 
with antibiotics or the use of a barrier method of contraception such as a 
condom.
4.3.1.4  Fungal diseases
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Rose black spot is a fungal disease where purple or black spots develop 
on leaves, which often turn yellow and drop early. It affects the growth of 
the plant as photosynthesis is reduced. It is spread in the environment 
by water or wind. Rose black spot can be treated by using fungicides 
and/or removing and destroying the affected leaves.

=== PDF page 32 ===
33
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.3.1.5  Protist diseases
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
The pathogens that cause malaria are protists.
The malarial protist has a life cycle that includes the mosquito. Malaria 
causes recurrent episodes of fever and can be fatal. The spread 
of malaria is controlled by preventing the vectors, mosquitos, from 
breeding and by using mosquito nets to avoid being bitten.
4.3.1.6  Human defence systems
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe the non-specific defence systems 
of the human body against pathogens, including the:
 • skin
 • nose
 • trachea and bronchi
 • stomach.
Students should be able to explain the role of the immune system in the 
defence against disease.
If a pathogen enters the body the immune system tries to destroy the 
pathogen.
White blood cells help to defend against pathogens by:
 • phagocytosis
 • antibody production
 • antitoxin production.
4.3.1.7  Vaccination
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain how vaccination will prevent illness 
in an individual, and how the spread of pathogens can be reduced by 
immunising a large proportion of the population.
Vaccination involves introducing small quantities of dead or inactive 
forms of a pathogen into the body to stimulate the white blood cells 
to produce antibodies. If the same pathogen re-enters the body the 
white blood cells respond quickly to produce the correct antibodies, 
preventing infection.
Students do not need to know details of vaccination schedules and side 
effects associated with specific vaccines.
WS 1.4
Evaluate the global use 
of vaccination in the 
prevention of disease.

=== PDF page 33 ===
34
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.3.1.8  Antibiotics and painkillers
Content Key opportunities for skills 
development
Students should be able to explain the use of antibiotics 
and other medicines in treating disease.
Antibiotics, such as penicillin, are medicines that help to 
cure bacterial disease by killing infective bacteria inside 
the body. It is important that specific bacteria should be 
treated by specific antibiotics.
WS 1.4
The use of antibiotics has greatly reduced deaths from 
infectious bacterial diseases. However, the emergence of 
strains resistant to antibiotics is of great concern.
There are links with this content to 
Culturing microorganisms (biology only).
There are links with this content to 
Resistant bacteria.
Antibiotics cannot kill viral pathogens.
Painkillers and other medicines are used to treat the 
symptoms of disease but do not kill pathogens.
It is difficult to develop drugs that kill viruses without also 
damaging the body’s tissues.
4.3.1.9  Discovery and development of drugs
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe the process of discovery and 
development of potential new medicines, including preclinical and 
clinical testing.
Traditionally drugs were extracted from plants and microorganisms.
 • The heart drug digitalis originates from foxgloves.
 • The painkiller aspirin originates from willow.
 • Penicillin was discovered by Alexander Fleming from the Penicillium 
mould.
Most new drugs are synthesised by chemists in the pharmaceutical 
industry. However, the starting point may still be a chemical extracted 
from a plant.
New medical drugs have to be tested and trialled before being used to 
check that they are safe and effective.
New drugs are extensively tested for toxicity, efficacy and dose.
Preclinical testing is done in a laboratory using cells, tissues and live 
animals.
Clinical trials use healthy volunteers and patients.
 • Very low doses of the drug are given at the start of the clinical trial.
 • If the drug is found to be safe, further clinical trials are carried out to 
find the optimum dose for the drug.
 • In double blind trials, some patients are given a placebo.
WS 1.6
Understand that the 
results of testing and trials 
are published only after 
scrutiny by peer review.

=== PDF page 34 ===
35
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.3.2  Monoclonal antibodies (biology only) (HT only)
4.3.2.1  Producing monoclonal antibodies
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe how monoclonal antibodies are 
produced.
Monoclonal antibodies are produced from a single clone of cells. The 
antibodies are specific to one binding site on one protein antigen and so 
are able to target a specific chemical or specific cells in the body.
They are produced by stimulating mouse lymphocytes to make a 
particular antibody. The lymphocytes are combined with a particular kind 
of tumour cell to make a cell called a hybridoma cell. The hybridoma 
cell can both divide and make the antibody. Single hybridoma cells 
are cloned to produce many identical cells that all produce the same 
antibody. A large amount of the antibody can be collected and purified.
4.3.2.2  Uses of monoclonal antibodies
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe some of the ways in which 
monoclonal antibodies can be used.
Some examples include:
 • for diagnosis such as in pregnancy tests
 • in laboratories to measure the levels of hormones and other 
chemicals in blood, or to detect pathogens
 • in research to locate or identify specific molecules in a cell or tissue 
by binding to them with a fluorescent dye
 • to treat some diseases: for cancer the monoclonal antibody can be 
bound to a radioactive substance, a toxic drug or a chemical which 
stops cells growing and dividing. It delivers the substance to the 
cancer cells without harming other cells in the body.
Students are not expected to recall any specific tests or treatments but 
given appropriate information they should be able to explain how they 
work.
WS 1.3
Appreciate the power of 
monoclonal antibodies 
and consider any ethical 
issues.
Monoclonal antibodies create more side effects than expected. They 
are not yet as widely used as everyone hoped when they were first 
developed.
WS 1.5
Evaluate the advantages 
and disadvantages of 
monoclonal antibodies.

=== PDF page 35 ===
36
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.3.3  Plant disease (biology only)
4.3.3.1  Detection and identification of plant diseases
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
(HT only) Plant diseases can be detected by:
 • stunted growth
 • spots on leaves
 • areas of decay (rot)
 • growths
 • malformed stems or leaves
 • discolouration
 • the presence of pests.
(HT only) Identification can be made by:
 • reference to a gardening manual or website
 • taking infected plants to a laboratory to identify the pathogen
 • using testing kits that contain monoclonal antibodies.
WS 1.4
The everyday application 
of scientific knowledge to 
detect and identify plant 
disease.
Plants can be infected by a range of viral, bacterial and fungal 
pathogens as well as by insects.
Knowledge of plant diseases is restricted to tobacco mosaic virus as a 
viral disease, black spot as a fungal disease and aphids as insects.
Plants can be damaged by a range of ion deficiency conditions:
 • stunted growth caused by nitrate deficiency
 • chlorosis caused by magnesium deficiency.
Knowledge of ions is limited to nitrate ions needed for protein synthesis 
and therefore growth, and magnesium ions needed to make chlorophyll.
WS 1.4
The understanding of 
ion deficiencies allows 
horticulturists to provide 
optimum conditions for 
plants.

=== PDF page 36 ===
37
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.3.3.2  Plant defence responses
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe physical and chemical plant 
defence responses.
Physical defence responses to resist invasion of microorganisms.
 • Cellulose cell walls.
 • Tough waxy cuticle on leaves.
 • Layers of dead cells around stems (bark on trees) which fall off.
Chemical plant defence responses.
 • Antibacterial chemicals.
 • Poisons to deter herbivores.
Mechanical adaptations.
 • Thorns and hairs deter animals.
 • Leaves which droop or curl when touched.
 • Mimicry to trick animals.
There are links with this 
content to Adaptations.
4.4  Bioenergetics
In this section we will explore how plants harness the Sun’s energy in photosynthesis in order to make 
food. This process liberates oxygen which has built up over millions of years in the Earth’s atmosphere. 
Both animals and plants use this oxygen to oxidise food in a process called aerobic respiration which 
transfers the energy that the organism needs to perform its functions. Conversely, anaerobic respiration 
does not require oxygen to transfer energy. During vigorous exercise the human body is unable to 
supply the cells with sufficient oxygen and it switches to anaerobic respiration. This process will supply 
energy but also causes the build-up of lactic acid in muscles which causes fatigue.
4.4.1  Photosynthesis
4.4.1.1  Photosynthetic reaction
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Photosynthesis is represented by the equation:
carbon dioxide + water 
light
  glucose + oxygen
Students should recognise the chemical symbols: 
CO2, H2O, O2 and C6H12O6.
Students should be able to describe photosynthesis as an endothermic 
reaction in which energy is transferred from the environment to the 
chloroplasts by light.
There are links with this 
content to Plant tissues, 
the leaf.

=== PDF page 37 ===
38
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.4.1.2  Rate of photosynthesis
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain the effects of temperature, light 
intensity, carbon dioxide concentration, and the amount of chlorophyll 
on the rate of photosynthesis.
Students should be able to:
 • measure and calculate rates of photosynthesis
 • extract and interpret graphs of photosynthesis rate involving one 
limiting factor
 • plot and draw appropriate graphs selecting appropriate scale for axes
 • translate information between graphical and numeric form.
MS 3d
Solve simple algebraic 
equations.
MS 1a, 1c, 2c, 4a, 4c
(HT only) These factors interact and any one of them may be the factor 
that limits photosynthesis.
(HT only) Students should be able to explain graphs of photosynthesis 
rate involving two or three factors and decide which is the limiting factor.
(HT only) Students should understand and use inverse proportion – the 
inverse square law and light intensity in the context of photosynthesis.
(HT only) Limiting factors are important in the economics of 
enhancing the conditions in greenhouses to gain the maximum rate of 
photosynthesis while still maintaining profit.
MS 3a, 3d
(HT only) WS 1.4
Use data to relate limiting 
factors to the cost 
effectiveness of adding 
heat, light or carbon 
dioxide to greenhouses.
Required practical activity 6: investigate the effect of light intensity on the rate of photosynthesis 
using an aquatic organism such as pondweed.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are given in 
Key opportunities for skills development. 
4.4.1.3  Uses of glucose from photosynthesis
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
The glucose produced in photosynthesis may be:
 • used for respiration
 • converted into insoluble starch for storage
 • used to produce fat or oil for storage
 • used to produce cellulose, which strengthens the cell wall
 • used to produce amino acids for protein synthesis.
To produce proteins, plants also use nitrate ions that are absorbed from 
the soil.
AT 8
Tests to identify starch, 
glucose and proteins 
using simple qualitative 
reagents.

=== PDF page 38 ===
39
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.4.2  Respiration
4.4.2.1  Aerobic and anaerobic respiration
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe cellular respiration as an 
exothermic reaction which is continuously occurring in living cells.
The energy transferred supplies all the energy needed for living 
processes.
Respiration in cells can take place aerobically (using oxygen) or 
anaerobically (without oxygen), to transfer energy.
Students should be able to compare the processes of aerobic and 
anaerobic respiration with regard to the need for oxygen, the differing 
products and the relative amounts of energy transferred.
Organisms need energy for:
 • chemical reactions to build larger molecules
 • movement
 • keeping warm.
Aerobic respiration is represented by the equation:
glucose + oxygen  carbon dioxide + water
Students should recognise the chemical symbols: 
C6H12O6, O2, CO2 and H2O.
Anaerobic respiration in muscles is represented by the equation:
glucose lactic acid
As the oxidation of glucose is incomplete in anaerobic respiration much 
less energy is transferred than in aerobic respiration.
Anaerobic respiration in plant and yeast cells is represented by the 
equation:
glucose ethanol + carbon dioxide
Anaerobic respiration in yeast cells is called fermentation and has 
economic importance in the manufacture of bread and alcoholic drinks.

=== PDF page 39 ===
40
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.4.2.2  Response to exercise
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
During exercise the human body reacts to the increased demand for 
energy.
The heart rate, breathing rate and breath volume increase during 
exercise to supply the muscles with more oxygenated blood.
If insufficient oxygen is supplied anaerobic respiration takes place in 
muscles. The incomplete oxidation of glucose causes a build up of 
lactic acid and creates an oxygen debt. During long periods of vigorous 
activity muscles become fatigued and stop contracting efficiently.
AT 1, 3, 4
Investigations into the 
effect of exercise on the 
body.
(HT only) Blood flowing through the muscles transports the lactic acid 
to the liver where it is converted back into glucose. Oxygen debt is the 
amount of extra oxygen the body needs after exercise to react with the 
accumulated lactic acid and remove it from the cells.
4.4.2.3  Metabolism
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain the importance of sugars, amino 
acids, fatty acids and glycerol in the synthesis and breakdown of 
carbohydrates, proteins and lipids.
Metabolism is the sum of all the reactions in a cell or the body.
The energy transferred by respiration in cells is used by the organism 
for the continual enzyme controlled processes of metabolism that 
synthesise new molecules.
Metabolism includes:
 • conversion of glucose to starch, glycogen and cellulose
 • the formation of lipid molecules from a molecule of glycerol and three 
molecules of fatty acids
 • the use of glucose and nitrate ions to form amino acids which in turn 
are used to synthesise proteins
 • respiration
 • breakdown of excess proteins to form urea for excretion.
All of these aspects are covered in more detail in the relevant 
specification section but are linked together here.

=== PDF page 40 ===
41
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.5  Homeostasis and response
Cells in the body can only survive within narrow physical and chemical limits. They require a constant 
temperature and pH as well as a constant supply of dissolved food and water. In order to do this the 
body requires control systems that constantly monitor and adjust the composition of the blood and 
tissues. These control systems include receptors which sense changes and effectors that bring about 
changes. 
In this section we will explore the structure and function of the nervous system and how it can bring 
about fast responses. We will also explore the hormonal system which usually brings about much 
slower changes. Hormonal coordination is particularly important in reproduction since it controls the 
menstrual cycle. An understanding of the role of hormones in reproduction has allowed scientists to 
develop not only contraceptive drugs but also drugs which can increase fertility.
4.5.1  Homeostasis
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain that homeostasis is the regulation 
of the internal conditions of a cell or organism to maintain optimum 
conditions for function in response to internal and external changes.
Homeostasis maintains optimal conditions for enzyme action and all cell 
functions.
In the human body, these include control of:
 • blood glucose concentration
 • body temperature
 • water levels.
These automatic control systems may involve nervous responses or 
chemical responses.
All control systems include:
 • cells called receptors, which detect stimuli (changes in the 
environment)
 • coordination centres (such as the brain, spinal cord and pancreas) 
that receive and process information from receptors
 • effectors, muscles or glands, which bring about responses which 
restore optimum levels.

=== PDF page 41 ===
42
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.5.2  The human nervous system
4.5.2.1  Structure and function
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain how the structure of the nervous 
system is adapted to its functions.
The nervous system enables humans to react to their surroundings and 
to coordinate their behaviour.
Information from receptors passes along cells (neurones) as electrical 
impulses to the central nervous system (CNS). The CNS is the brain and 
spinal cord. The CNS coordinates the response of effectors which may 
be muscles contracting or glands secreting hormones.
stimulus receptor coordinator effector response 
Students should be able to explain how the various structures in a reflex 
arc – including the sensory neurone, synapse, relay neurone and motor 
neurone – relate to their function. Students should understand why reflex 
actions are important.
Reflex actions are automatic and rapid; they do not involve the 
conscious part of the brain.
Students should be able to extract and interpret data from graphs, 
charts and tables, about the functioning of the nervous system.
MS 2c
Students should be able to translate information about reaction times 
between numerical and graphical forms.
MS 4a
Required practical activity 7: plan and carry out an investigation into the effect of a factor on human 
reaction time.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1, 3 and 4.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are given in 
Key opportunities for skills development.

=== PDF page 42 ===
43
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.5.2.2  The brain (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
The brain controls complex behaviour. It is made of billions of 
interconnected neurones and has different regions that carry out 
different functions.
Students should be able to identify the cerebral cortex, cerebellum and 
medulla on a diagram of the brain, and describe their functions.
(HT only) Students should be able to explain some of the difficulties of 
investigating brain function and treating brain damage and disease.
(HT only) Neuroscientists have been able to map the regions of the 
brain to particular functions by studying patients with brain damage, 
electrically stimulating different parts of the brain and using MRI 
scanning techniques. The complexity and delicacy of the brain makes 
investigating and treating brain disorders very difficult.
(HT only)
WS 1.5
Evaluate the benefits 
and risks of procedures 
carried out on the brain 
and nervous system.
4.5.2.3  The eye (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to relate the structures of the eye to their 
functions. This includes:
 • accommodation to focus on near or distant objects
 • adaptation to dim light.
The eye is a sense organ containing receptors sensitive to light intensity 
and colour.

=== PDF page 43 ===
44
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to identify the following structures on a diagram 
of the eye and explain how their structure is related to their function:
 • retina
 • optic nerve
 • sclera
 • cornea
 • iris
 • ciliary muscles
 • suspensory ligaments.
Accommodation is the process of changing the shape of the lens to 
focus on near or distant objects.
To focus on a near object:
 • the ciliary muscles contract
 • the suspensory ligaments loosen
 • the lens is then thicker and refracts light rays strongly.
To focus on a distant object:
 • the ciliary muscles relax
 • the suspensory ligaments are pulled tight
 • the lens is then pulled thin and only slightly refracts light rays.
Two common defects of the eyes are myopia (short sightedness) and 
hyperopia (long sightedness) in which rays of light do not focus on the 
retina.
 • Generally these defects are treated with spectacle lenses which 
refract the light rays so that they do focus on the retina.
 • New technologies now include hard and soft contact lenses, laser 
surgery to change the shape of the cornea and a replacement lens in 
the eye.
WS 1.2
Students should be able to interpret ray diagrams, showing these two 
common defects of the eye and demonstrate how spectacle lenses 
correct them.
WS 1.2, 1.4

=== PDF page 44 ===
45
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.5.2.4  Control of body temperature (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Body temperature is monitored and controlled by the thermoregulatory 
centre in the brain. The thermoregulatory centre contains receptors 
sensitive to the temperature of the blood. The skin contains temperature 
receptors and sends nervous impulses to the thermoregulatory centre.
If the body temperature is too high, blood vessels dilate (vasodilation) 
and sweat is produced from the sweat glands. Both these mechanisms 
cause a transfer of energy from the skin to the environment.
If the body temperature is too low, blood vessels constrict 
(vasoconstriction), sweating stops and skeletal muscles contract (shiver).
(HT only) Students should be able to explain how these mechanisms 
lower or raise body temperature in a given context.
4.5.3  Hormonal coordination in humans
4.5.3.1  Human endocrine system
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe the principles of hormonal 
coordination and control by the human endocrine system.
The endocrine system is composed of glands which secrete chemicals 
called hormones directly into the bloodstream. The blood carries the 
hormone to a target organ where it produces an effect. Compared to the 
nervous system the effects are slower but act for longer.
The pituitary gland in the brain is a ‘master gland’ which secretes 
several hormones into the blood in response to body conditions. These 
hormones in turn act on other glands to stimulate other hormones to be 
released to bring about effects.
Students should be able to identify the position of the following on a 
diagram of the human body:
 • pituitary gland
 • pancreas
 • thyroid
 • adrenal gland
 • ovary
 • testes.

=== PDF page 45 ===
46
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.5.3.2  Control of blood glucose concentration
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Blood glucose concentration is monitored and controlled by the 
pancreas.
If the blood glucose concentration is too high, the pancreas produces 
the hormone insulin that causes glucose to move from the blood into the 
cells. In liver and muscle cells excess glucose is converted to glycogen 
for storage.
Students should be able to explain how insulin controls blood glucose 
(sugar) levels in the body.
Type 1 diabetes is a disorder in which the pancreas fails to produce 
sufficient insulin. It is characterised by uncontrolled high blood glucose 
levels and is normally treated with insulin injections.
In Type 2 diabetes the body cells no longer respond to insulin produced 
by the pancreas. A carbohydrate controlled diet and an exercise regime 
are common treatments. Obesity is a risk factor for Type 2 diabetes.
Students should be able to compare Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes and 
explain how they can be treated.
WS 1.3
Evaluate information 
around the relationship 
between obesity and 
diabetes, and make 
recommendations taking 
into account social and 
ethical issues.
Students should be able to extract information and interpret data from 
graphs that show the effect of insulin in blood glucose levels in both 
people with diabetes and people without diabetes.
MS 2c
(HT only) If the blood glucose concentration is too low, the pancreas 
produces the hormone glucagon that causes glycogen to be converted 
into glucose and released into the blood.
(HT only) Students should be able to explain how glucagon interacts 
with insulin in a negative feedback cycle to control blood glucose (sugar) 
levels in the body.

=== PDF page 46 ===
47
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.5.3.3  Maintaining water and nitrogen balance in the body (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain the effect on cells of osmotic 
changes in body fluids.
Water leaves the body via the lungs during exhalation.
Water, ions and urea are lost from the skin in sweat.
There is no control over water, ion or urea loss by the lungs or skin.
Excess water, ions and urea are removed via the kidneys in the urine.
If body cells lose or gain too much water by osmosis they do not 
function efficiently.
(HT only) The digestion of proteins from the diet results in excess 
amino acids which need to be excreted safely. In the liver these amino 
acids are deaminated to form ammonia. Ammonia is toxic and so it is 
immediately converted to urea for safe excretion.
Students should be able to describe the function of kidneys in 
maintaining the water balance of the body.
The kidneys produce urine by filtration of the blood and selective 
reabsorption of useful substances such as glucose, some ions and 
water.
Knowledge of other parts of the urinary system, the structure of the 
kidney and the structure of a nephron is not required.
Students should be able to translate tables and bar charts of glucose, 
ions and urea before and after filtration.
MS 4a
(HT only) Students should be able to describe the effect of ADH on the 
permeability of the kidney tubules.
(HT only) The water level in the body is controlled by the hormone ADH 
which acts on the kidney tubules. ADH is released by the pituitary 
gland when the blood is too concentrated and it causes more water 
to be reabsorbed back into the blood from the kidney tubules. This is 
controlled by negative feedback.
People who suffer from kidney failure may be treated by organ transplant 
or by using kidney dialysis. Students should know the basic principles of 
dialysis.
WS 1.4
Students should be able 
to describe how kidney 
dialysis works.
WS 1.5
Evaluate the advantages 
and disadvantages of 
treating organ failure by 
mechanical device or 
transplant.

=== PDF page 47 ===
48
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.5.3.4  Hormones in human reproduction
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe the roles of hormones in human 
reproduction, including the menstrual cycle.
During puberty reproductive hormones cause secondary sex 
characteristics to develop.
Oestrogen is the main female reproductive hormone produced in 
the ovary. At puberty eggs begin to mature and one is released 
approximately every 28 days. This is called ovulation.
Testosterone is the main male reproductive hormone produced by the 
testes and it stimulates sperm production.
Several hormones are involved in the menstrual cycle of a woman.
 • Follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) causes maturation of an egg in the 
ovary.
 • Luteinising hormone (LH) stimulates the release of the egg.
 • Oestrogen and progesterone are involved in maintaining the uterus 
lining.
(HT only) Students should be able to explain the interactions of FSH, 
oestrogen, LH and progesterone, in the control of the menstrual cycle.
(HT only) Students should be able to extract and interpret data from 
graphs showing hormone levels during the menstrual cycle.
MS 2c
4.5.3.5  Contraception
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to evaluate the different hormonal and non-
hormonal methods of contraception.
Fertility can be controlled by a variety of hormonal and non-hormonal 
methods of contraception.
These include:
 • oral contraceptives that contain hormones to inhibit FSH production 
so that no eggs mature
 • injection, implant or skin patch of slow release progesterone to inhibit 
the maturation and release of eggs for a number of months or years
 • barrier methods such as condoms and diaphragms which prevent the 
sperm reaching an egg
 • intrauterine devices which prevent the implantation of an embryo or 
release a hormone
 • spermicidal agents which kill or disable sperm
 • abstaining from intercourse when an egg may be in the oviduct
 • surgical methods of male and female sterilisation.
WS 1.3
Show why issues around 
contraception cannot 
be answered by science 
alone.
WS 1.4
Explain everyday and 
technological applications 
of science; evaluate 
associated personal, 
social, economic 
and environmental 
implications; and make 
decisions based on the 
evaluation of evidence 
and arguments.

=== PDF page 48 ===
49
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.5.3.6  The use of hormones to treat infertility (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain the use of hormones in modern 
reproductive technologies to treat infertility.
This includes giving FSH and LH in a ‘fertility drug’ to a woman. She 
may then become pregnant in the normal way.
In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) treatment.
 • IVF involves giving a mother FSH and LH to stimulate the maturation 
of several eggs.
 • The eggs are collected from the mother and fertilised by sperm from 
the father in the laboratory.
 • The fertilised eggs develop into embryos.
 • At the stage when they are tiny balls of cells, one or two embryos are 
inserted into the mother’s uterus (womb).
WS 1.1
Developments of 
microscopy techniques 
have enabled IVF 
treatments to develop.
WS 1.3
Understand social and 
ethical issues associated 
with IVF treatments.
Although fertility treatment gives a woman the chance to have a baby of 
her own:
 • it is very emotionally and physically stressful
 • the success rates are not high
 • it can lead to multiple births which are a risk to both the babies and 
the mother.
WS 1.4
Evaluate from the 
perspective of patients 
and doctors the methods 
of treating infertility.
4.5.3.7  Negative feedback (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain the roles of thyroxine and adrenaline 
in the body.
Adrenaline is produced by the adrenal glands in times of fear or stress. It 
increases the heart rate and boosts the delivery of oxygen and glucose 
to the brain and muscles, preparing the body for ‘flight or fight’.
Thyroxine from the thyroid gland stimulates the basal metabolic rate. It 
plays an important role in growth and development.
Thyroxine levels are controlled by negative feedback. WS 1.2, MS 2c
Interpret and explain 
simple diagrams of 
negative feedback control.

=== PDF page 49 ===
50
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.5.4  Plant hormones (biology only)
4.5.4.1  Control and coordination
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Plants produce hormones to coordinate and control growth and 
responses to light (phototropism) and gravity (gravitropism or 
geotropism). Unequal distributions of auxin cause unequal growth rates 
in plant roots and shoots.
(HT only) Gibberellins are important in initiating seed germination.
(HT only) Ethene controls cell division and ripening of fruits.
(HT only) The mechanisms of how gibberellins and ethene work are not 
required.
Required practical activity 8: investigate the effect of light or gravity on the growth of newly 
germinated seedlings. 
Record results as both length measurements and as careful, labelled biological drawings to show the 
effects.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1, 3, 4 and 7.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are given in 
Key opportunities for skills development.
4.5.4.2  Use of plant hormones (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe the effects of some plant hormones 
and the different ways people use them to control plant growth.
Plant growth hormones are used in agriculture and horticulture.
Auxins are used:
 • as weed killers
 • as rooting powders
 • for promoting growth in tissue culture.
Ethene is used in the food industry to control ripening of fruit during 
storage and transport.
Gibberellins can be used to:
 • end seed dormancy
 • promote flowering
 • increase fruit size.
WS 1.3, 1.4
Understand how the 
everyday use of hormones 
as weed killers has an 
effect on biodiversity.

=== PDF page 50 ===
51
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6  Inheritance, variation and evolution
In this section we will discover how the number of chromosomes are halved during meiosis and then 
combined with new genes from the sexual partner to produce unique offspring. Gene mutations occur 
continuously and on rare occasions can affect the functioning of the animal or plant. These mutations 
may be damaging and lead to a number of genetic disorders or death. Very rarely a new mutation 
can be beneficial and consequently, lead to increased fitness in the individual. Variation generated by 
mutations and sexual reproduction is the basis for natural selection; this is how species evolve. 
An understanding of these processes has allowed scientists to intervene through selective breeding 
to produce livestock with favoured characteristics. Once new varieties of plants or animals have 
been produced it is possible to clone individuals to produce larger numbers of identical individuals all 
carrying the favourable characteristic. 
Scientists have now discovered how to take genes from one species and introduce them in to the 
genome of another by a process called genetic engineering. In spite of the huge potential benefits that 
this technology can offer, genetic modification still remains highly controversial.
4.6.1  Reproduction
4.6.1.1  Sexual and asexual reproduction
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should understand that meiosis leads to non-identical cells 
being formed while mitosis leads to identical cells being formed.
Sexual reproduction involves the joining (fusion) of male and female 
gametes:
 • sperm and egg cells in animals
 • pollen and egg cells in flowering plants.
In sexual reproduction there is mixing of genetic information which leads 
to variety in the offspring. The formation of gametes involves meiosis.
Asexual reproduction involves only one parent and no fusion of gametes. 
There is no mixing of genetic information. This leads to genetically 
identical offspring (clones). Only mitosis is involved.
There are links 
with this content to 
Mitosis and the cell cycle.

=== PDF page 51 ===
52
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.1.2  Meiosis
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain how meiosis halves the number of 
chromosomes in gametes and fertilisation restores the full number of 
chromosomes.
Cells in reproductive organs divide by meiosis to form gametes.
When a cell divides to form gametes:
 • copies of the genetic information are made
 • the cell divides twice to form four gametes, each with a single set of 
chromosomes
 • all gametes are genetically different from each other.
Gametes join at fertilisation to restore the normal number of 
chromosomes. The new cell divides by mitosis. The number of cells 
increases. As the embryo develops cells differentiate.
Knowledge of the stages of meiosis is not required.
WS 1.2
Modelling behaviour of 
chromosomes during 
meiosis.
4.6.1.3  Advantages and disadvantages of sexual and asexual reproduction (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Advantages of sexual reproduction:
 • produces variation in the offspring
 • if the environment changes variation gives a survival advantage by natural 
selection
 • natural selection can be speeded up by humans in selective breeding to 
increase food production.
Advantages of asexual reproduction:
 • only one parent needed
 • more time and energy efficient as do not need to find a mate
 • faster than sexual reproduction
 • many identical offspring can be produced when conditions are favourable.
There are links 
with this content to 
Animal and plant cells  
and 
Cloning (biology only).
Some organisms reproduce by both methods depending on the 
circumstances.
 • Malarial parasites reproduce asexually in the human host, but sexually in 
the mosquito.
 • Many fungi reproduce asexually by spores but also reproduce sexually to 
give variation.
 • Many plants produce seeds sexually, but also reproduce asexually by 
runners such as strawberry plants, or bulb division such as daffodils.
Knowledge of reproduction in organisms is restricted to those mentioned.
Students are expected to be able to explain the advantages and 
disadvantages of asexual and sexual reproduction for any organism if given 
appropriate information.
WS 1.1
Historical 
developments of 
our understanding 
of the causes and 
prevention of malaria.

=== PDF page 52 ===
53
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.1.4  DNA and the genome
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe the structure of DNA and define 
genome.
The genetic material in the nucleus of a cell is composed of a chemical 
called DNA. DNA is a polymer made up of two strands forming a double 
helix. The DNA is contained in structures called chromosomes.
A gene is a small section of DNA on a chromosome. Each gene codes 
for a particular sequence of amino acids, to make a specific protein.
The genome of an organism is the entire genetic material of that 
organism. The whole human genome has now been studied and this will 
have great importance for medicine in the future.
Students should be able to discuss the importance of understanding the 
human genome.
This is limited to the:
 • search for genes linked to different types of disease
 • understanding and treatment of inherited disorders
 • use in tracing human migration patterns from the past.
WS 1.1, 1.4
4.6.1.5  DNA structure (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe DNA as a polymer made from four 
different nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of a common sugar and 
phosphate group with one of four different bases attached to the sugar.
DNA contains four bases, A, C, G and T.
A sequence of three bases is the code for a particular amino acid. The 
order of bases controls the order in which amino acids are assembled to 
produce a particular protein.
The long strands of DNA consist of alternating sugar and phosphate 
sections. Attached to each sugar is one of the four bases.
The DNA polymer is made up of repeating nucleotide units.
WS 1.2
Interpret a diagram of 
DNA structure but will not 
be required to reproduce 
it.

=== PDF page 53 ===
54
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
(HT only) Students should be able to:
 • recall a simple description of protein synthesis
 • explain simply how the structure of DNA affects the protein made
 • describe how genetic variants may influence phenotype: a) in coding 
DNA by altering the activity of a protein: and b) in non-coding DNA by 
altering how genes are expressed.
(HT only) In the complementary strands a C is always linked to a G on 
the opposite strand and a T to an A.
(HT only) Students are not expected to know or understand the structure 
of mRNA, tRNA, or the detailed structure of amino acids or proteins.
(HT only) Students should be able to explain how a change in DNA 
structure may result in a change in the protein synthesised by a gene.
(HT only) Proteins are synthesised on ribosomes, according to a 
template. Carrier molecules bring specific amino acids to add to the 
growing protein chain in the correct order.
(HT only) When the protein chain is complete it folds up to form a 
unique shape. This unique shape enables the proteins to do their job as 
enzymes, hormones or forming structures in the body such as collagen.
(HT only) Mutations occur continuously. Most do not alter the protein, or 
only alter it slightly so that its appearance or function is not changed.
(HT only) A few mutations code for an altered protein with a different 
shape. An enzyme may no longer fit the substrate binding site or a 
structural protein may lose its strength.
(HT only) Not all parts of DNA code for proteins. Non-coding parts of 
DNA can switch genes on and off, so variations in these areas of DNA 
may affect how genes are expressed.
WS 1.2
Modelling insertions and 
deletions in chromosomes 
to illustrate mutations.

=== PDF page 54 ===
55
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.1.6  Genetic inheritance
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain the terms:
 • gamete
 • chromosome
 • gene
 • allele
 • dominant
 • recessive
 • homozygous
 • heterozygous
 • genotype
 • phenotype.
Some characteristics are controlled by a single gene, such as: fur colour 
in mice; and red-green colour blindness in humans. Each gene may have 
different forms called alleles.
The alleles present, or genotype, operate at a molecular level to develop 
characteristics that can be expressed as a phenotype.
A dominant allele is always expressed, even if only one copy is present. 
A recessive allele is only expressed if two copies are present (therefore 
no dominant allele present).
If the two alleles present are the same the organism is homozygous for 
that trait, but if the alleles are different they are heterozygous.
Most characteristics are a result of multiple genes interacting, rather 
than a single gene.
Students should be able to understand the concept of probability 
in predicting the results of a single gene cross, but recall that most 
phenotype features are the result of multiple genes rather than single 
gene inheritance.
MS 2e
Students should be able to use direct proportion and simple ratios to 
express the outcome of a genetic cross.
MS 1c, 3a
Students should be able to complete a Punnett square diagram and 
extract and interpret information from genetic crosses and family trees.
MS 2c, 4a
(HT only) Students should be able to construct a genetic cross by 
Punnett square diagram and use it to make predictions using the theory 
of probability.
MS 2e, WS 1.2

=== PDF page 55 ===
56
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.1.7  Inherited disorders
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Some disorders are inherited. These disorders are caused by the 
inheritance of certain alleles.
 • Polydactyly (having extra fingers or toes) is caused by a dominant 
allele.
 • Cystic fibrosis (a disorder of cell membranes) is caused by a 
recessive allele.
Students should make informed judgements about the economic, social 
and ethical issues concerning embryo screening, given appropriate 
information.
WS 1.3
Appreciate that embryo 
screening and gene 
therapy may alleviate 
suffering but consider the 
ethical issues which arise.
4.6.1.8  Sex determination
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Ordinary human body cells contain 23 pairs of chromosomes.
22 pairs control characteristics only, but one of the pairs carries the 
genes that determine sex.
 • In females the sex chromosomes are the same (XX).
 • In males the chromosomes are different (XY).
Students should be able to carry out a genetic cross to show sex 
inheritance.
Students should understand and use direct proportion and simple ratios 
in genetic crosses.
MS 1c, 3a

=== PDF page 56 ===
57
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.2  Variation and evolution
4.6.2.1  Variation
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe simply how the genome and its 
interaction with the environment influence the development of the 
phenotype of an organism.
Differences in the characteristics of individuals in a population is called 
variation and may be due to differences in:
 • the genes they have inherited (genetic causes)
 • the conditions in which they have developed (environmental causes)
 • a combination of genes and the environment.
Students should be able to:
 • state that there is usually extensive genetic variation within a 
population of a species
 • recall that all variants arise from mutations and that: most have 
no effect on the phenotype; some influence phenotype; very few 
determine phenotype.
Mutations occur continuously. Very rarely a mutation will lead to a new 
phenotype. If the new phenotype is suited to an environmental change it 
can lead to a relatively rapid change in the species.
There are links 
with this content to 
Speciation (biology only).
4.6.2.2  Evolution
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe evolution as a change in the 
inherited characteristics of a population over time through a process of 
natural selection which may result in the formation of a new species.
The theory of evolution by natural selection states that all species of 
living things have evolved from simple life forms that first developed 
more than three billion years ago.
Students should be able to explain how evolution occurs through natural 
selection of variants that give rise to phenotypes best suited to their 
environment.
If two populations of one species become so different in phenotype 
that they can no longer interbreed to produce fertile offspring they have 
formed two new species.
WS 1.2
Use the theory of 
evolution by natural 
selection in an 
explanation.

=== PDF page 57 ===
58
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.2.3  Selective breeding
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain the impact of selective breeding of 
food plants and domesticated animals.
Selective breeding (artificial selection) is the process by which humans 
breed plants and animals for particular genetic characteristics. Humans 
have been doing this for thousands of years since they first bred food 
crops from wild plants and domesticated animals.
Selective breeding involves choosing parents with the desired 
characteristic from a mixed population. They are bred together. From the 
offspring those with the desired characteristic are bred together. This 
continues over many generations until all the offspring show the desired 
characteristic.
The characteristic can be chosen for usefulness or appearance:
 • Disease resistance in food crops.
 • Animals which produce more meat or milk.
 • Domestic dogs with a gentle nature.
 • Large or unusual flowers.
Selective breeding can lead to ‘inbreeding’ where some breeds are 
particularly prone to disease or inherited defects.
WS 1.3, 1.4
Explain the benefits and 
risks of selective breeding 
given appropriate 
information and consider 
related ethical issues.

=== PDF page 58 ===
59
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.2.4  Genetic engineering
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe genetic engineering as a process 
which involves modifying the genome of an organism by introducing a 
gene from another organism to give a desired characteristic.
Plant crops have been genetically engineered to be resistant to diseases 
or to produce bigger better fruits.
Bacterial cells have been genetically engineered to produce useful 
substances such as human insulin to treat diabetes.
There are links 
with this content to 
Role of biotechnology 
(biology only).
Students should be able to explain the potential benefits and risks of 
genetic engineering in agriculture and in medicine and that some people 
have objections.
In genetic engineering, genes from the chromosomes of humans and 
other organisms can be ‘cut out’ and transferred to cells of other 
organisms.
Crops that have had their genes modified in this way are called 
genetically modified (GM) crops. GM crops include ones that are 
resistant to insect attack or to herbicides. GM crops generally show 
increased yields.
Concerns about GM crops include the effect on populations of wild 
flowers and insects. Some people feel the effects of eating GM crops on 
human health have not been fully explored.
Modern medical research is exploring the possibility of genetic 
modification to overcome some inherited disorders.
WS 1.3, 1.4
(HT only) Students should be able to describe the main steps in the 
process of genetic engineering.
(HT only) In genetic engineering:
 • enzymes are used to isolate the required gene; this gene is inserted 
into a vector, usually a bacterial plasmid or a virus
 • the vector is used to insert the gene into the required cells
 • genes are transferred to the cells of animals, plants or 
microorganisms at an early stage in their development so that they 
develop with desired characteristics.
(HT only)
WS 1.4
Interpret information 
about genetic engineering 
techniques and to make 
informed judgements 
about issues concerning 
cloning and genetic 
engineering, including GM 
crops.

=== PDF page 59 ===
60
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.2.5  Cloning (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Tissue culture: using small groups of cells from part of a plant to grow 
identical new plants. This is important for preserving rare plant species 
or commercially in nurseries.
Cuttings: an older, but simple, method used by gardeners to produce 
many identical new plants from a parent plant.
Embryo transplants: splitting apart cells from a developing animal 
embryo before they become specialised, then transplanting the identical 
embryos into host mothers.
Adult cell cloning: 
 • The nucleus is removed from an unfertilised egg cell.
 • The nucleus from an adult body cell, such as a skin cell, is inserted 
into the egg cell.
 • An electric shock stimulates the egg cell to divide to form an embryo.
 • These embryo cells contain the same genetic information as the adult 
skin cell.
 • When the embryo has developed into a ball of cells, it is inserted into 
the womb of an adult female to continue its development.
WS 1.3, 1.4
Explain the potential 
benefits and risks of 
cloning in agriculture 
and in medicine and that 
some people have ethical 
objections.
There are links with this 
content to Advantages 
and disadvantages of 
sexual and asexual 
reproduction (biology only) 
and Selective breeding.

=== PDF page 60 ===
61
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.3  The development of understanding of genetics and evolution
4.6.3.1  Theory of evolution (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Charles Darwin, as a result of observations on a round the world 
expedition, backed by years of experimentation and discussion and 
linked to developing knowledge of geology and fossils, proposed the 
theory of evolution by natural selection.
 • Individual organisms within a particular species show a wide range of 
variation for a characteristic.
 • Individuals with characteristics most suited to the environment are 
more likely to survive to breed successfully.
 • The characteristics that have enabled these individuals to survive are 
then passed on to the next generation.
Darwin published his ideas in On the Origin of Species (1859). There was 
much controversy surrounding these revolutionary new ideas.
The theory of evolution by natural selection was only gradually accepted 
because:
 • the theory challenged the idea that God made all the animals and 
plants that live on Earth
 • there was insufficient evidence at the time the theory was published 
to convince many scientists
 • the mechanism of inheritance and variation was not known until 
50 years after the theory was published.
Other theories, including that of Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, are based 
mainly on the idea that changes that occur in an organism during its 
lifetime can be inherited. We now know that in the vast majority of cases 
this type of inheritance cannot occur.
A study of creationism is not required.
WS 1.1, 1.3
Students should 
appreciate that the theory 
of evolution by natural 
selection developed over 
time and from information 
gathered by many 
scientists.

=== PDF page 61 ===
62
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.3.2  Speciation (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to:
 • describe the work of Darwin and Wallace in the development of the 
theory of evolution by natural selection
 • explain the impact of these ideas on biology.
Alfred Russel Wallace independently proposed the theory of evolution 
by natural selection. He published joint writings with Darwin in 1858 
which prompted Darwin to publish On the Origin of Species (1859) the 
following year.
Wallace worked worldwide gathering evidence for evolutionary theory. 
He is best known for his work on warning colouration in animals and his 
theory of speciation.
Alfred Wallace did much pioneering work on speciation but more 
evidence over time has led to our current understanding of the theory of 
speciation.
Students should be able to describe the steps which give rise to new 
species.
There are links with this 
content to Evolution.
WS 1.1
The theory of speciation 
has developed over time.
4.6.3.3  The understanding of genetics (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to:
 • describe the development of our understanding of genetics including 
the work of Mendel
 • understand why the importance of Mendel’s discovery was not 
recognised until after his death.
In the mid-19
th century Gregor Mendel carried out breeding experiments 
on plants. One of his observations was that the inheritance of 
each characteristic is determined by ‘units’ that are passed on to 
descendants unchanged.
In the late 19
th century behaviour of chromosomes during cell division 
was observed.
WS 1.1
Our current understanding 
of genetics has developed 
over time.
In the early 20
th century it was observed that chromosomes and 
Mendel’s ‘units’ behaved in similar ways. This led to the idea that the 
‘units’, now called genes, were located on chromosomes.
In the mid-20
th century the structure of DNA was determined and the 
mechanism of gene function worked out.
This scientific work by many scientists led to the gene theory being 
developed.
There are links 
with this content to 
Genetic inheritance.
WS 1.1

=== PDF page 62 ===
63
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.3.4  Evidence for evolution
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe the evidence for evolution including 
fossils and antibiotic resistance in bacteria.
The theory of evolution by natural selection is now widely accepted.
Evidence for Darwin’s theory is now available as it has been shown 
that characteristics are passed on to offspring in genes. There is further 
evidence in the fossil record and the knowledge of how resistance to 
antibiotics evolves in bacteria.
WS 1.3
Data is now available 
to support the theory of 
evolution.
4.6.3.5  Fossils
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Fossils are the ‘remains’ of organisms from millions of years ago, which 
are found in rocks.
Fossils may be formed:
 • from parts of organisms that have not decayed because one or more 
of the conditions needed for decay are absent
 • when parts of the organism are replaced by minerals as they decay
 • as preserved traces of organisms, such as footprints, burrows and 
rootlet traces.
MS 2c, 4a
Extract and interpret 
information from charts, 
graphs and tables.
Many early forms of life were soft-bodied, which means that they 
have left few traces behind. What traces there were have been mainly 
destroyed by geological activity. This is why scientists cannot be certain 
about how life began on Earth.
WS 1.3
Appreciate why the fossil 
record is incomplete.
We can learn from fossils how much or how little different organisms 
have changed as life developed on Earth.
WS 1.1
Understand how scientific 
methods and theories 
develop over time.
Students should be able to extract and interpret information from charts, 
graphs and tables such as evolutionary trees.
MS 2c, 4a
4.6.3.6  Extinction
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Extinctions occur when there are no remaining individuals of a species 
still alive.
Students should be able to describe factors which may contribute to the 
extinction of a species.

=== PDF page 63 ===
64
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.3.7  Resistant bacteria
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Bacteria can evolve rapidly because they reproduce at a fast rate.
Mutations of bacterial pathogens produce new strains. Some strains 
might be resistant to antibiotics, and so are not killed. They survive and 
reproduce, so the population of the resistant strain rises. The resistant 
strain will then spread because people are not immune to it and there is 
no effective treatment.
MRSA is resistant to antibiotics.
To reduce the rate of development of antibiotic resistant strains:
 • doctors should not prescribe antibiotics inappropriately, such as 
treating non-serious or viral infections
 • patients should complete their course of antibiotics so all bacteria are 
killed and none survive to mutate and form resistant strains
 • the agricultural use of antibiotics should be restricted.
The development of new antibiotics is costly and slow. It is unlikely to 
keep up with the emergence of new resistant strains.
There are links 
with this content to 
Antibiotics and painkillers.

=== PDF page 64 ===
65
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.6.4  Classification of living organisms
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Traditionally living things have been classified into groups depending 
on their structure and characteristics in a system developed by Carl 
Linnaeus.
Linnaeus classified living things into kingdom, phylum, class, order, 
family, genus and species. Organisms are named by the binomial system 
of genus and species.
Students should be able to use information given to show understanding 
of the Linnaean system.
Students should be able to describe the impact of developments in 
biology on classification systems.
As evidence of internal structures became more developed due to 
improvements in microscopes, and the understanding of biochemical 
processes progressed, new models of classification were proposed.
Due to evidence available from chemical analysis there is now a ‘three-
domain system’ developed by Carl Woese. In this system organisms are 
divided into:
 • archaea (primitive bacteria usually living in extreme environments)
 • bacteria (true bacteria)
 • eukaryota (which includes protists, fungi, plants and animals).
WS 1.1
Understand how scientific 
methods and theories 
develop over time.
Evolutionary trees are a method used by scientists to show how they 
believe organisms are related. They use current classification data for 
living organisms and fossil data for extinct organisms.
WS 1.2
Interpret evolutionary 
trees.

=== PDF page 65 ===
66
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.7  Ecology
The Sun is a source of energy that passes through ecosystems. Materials including carbon and water 
are continually recycled by the living world, being released through respiration of animals, plants and 
decomposing microorganisms and taken up by plants in photosynthesis. 
All species live in ecosystems composed of complex communities of animals and plants dependent 
on each other and that are adapted to particular conditions, both abiotic and biotic. These ecosystems 
provide essential services that support human life and continued development. 
In order to continue to benefit from these services humans need to engage with the environment in a 
sustainable way. In this section we will explore how humans are threatening biodiversity as well as the 
natural systems that support it. We will also consider some actions we need to take to ensure our future 
health, prosperity and well-being.
4.7.1  Adaptations, interdependence and competition
4.7.1.1  Communities
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe:
 • different levels of organisation in an ecosystem from individual 
organisms to the whole ecosystem
 • the importance of interdependence and competition in a community.
Students should be able to, when provided with appropriate information:
 • suggest the factors for which organisms are competing in a given 
habitat
 • suggest how organisms are adapted to the conditions in which they 
live.
An ecosystem is the interaction of a community of living organisms 
(biotic) with the non-living (abiotic) parts of their environment.
To survive and reproduce, organisms require a supply of materials from 
their surroundings and from the other living organisms there.
Plants in a community or habitat often compete with each other for light 
and space, and for water and mineral ions from the soil. Animals often 
compete with each other for food, mates and territory.
Within a community each species depends on other species for food, 
shelter, pollination, seed dispersal etc. If one species is removed it can 
affect the whole community. This is called interdependence. A stable 
community is one where all the species and environmental factors are in 
balance so that population sizes remain fairly constant.
WS 2.6
Recording first-
hand observations of 
organisms.
Students should be able to extract and interpret information from charts, 
graphs and tables relating to the interaction of organisms within a 
community.
MS 2c, 4a
Extract and interpret 
information from charts, 
graphs and tables.

=== PDF page 66 ===
67
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.7.1.2  Abiotic factors
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain how a change in an abiotic factor 
would affect a given community given appropriate data or context.
Abiotic (non-living) factors which can affect a community are:
 • light intensity
 • temperature
 • moisture levels
 • soil pH and mineral content
 • wind intensity and direction
 • carbon dioxide levels for plants
 • oxygen levels for aquatic animals.
WS 1.2
Students should be able to extract and interpret information from charts, 
graphs and tables relating to the effect of abiotic factors on organisms 
within a community.
MS 2c, 4a
Extract and interpret 
information from charts, 
graphs and tables.
4.7.1.3  Biotic factors
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain how a change in a biotic factor might 
affect a given community given appropriate data or context.
Biotic (living) factors which can affect a community are:
 • availability of food
 • new predators arriving
 • new pathogens
 • one species outcompeting another so the numbers are no longer 
sufficient to breed.
WS 1.2
Students should be able to extract and interpret information from charts, 
graphs and tables relating to the effect of biotic factors on organisms 
within a community.
MS 2c, 4a
Extract and interpret 
information from charts, 
graphs and tables.

=== PDF page 67 ===
68
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.7.1.4  Adaptations
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain how organisms are adapted to live in 
their natural environment, given appropriate information.
Organisms have features (adaptations) that enable them to survive in 
the conditions in which they normally live. These adaptations may be 
structural, behavioural or functional.
Some organisms live in environments that are very extreme, such as 
at high temperature, pressure, or salt concentration. These organisms 
are called extremophiles. Bacteria living in deep sea vents are 
extremophiles.
4.7.2  Organisation of an ecosystem
4.7.2.1  Levels of organisation
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should understand that photosynthetic organisms are the 
producers of biomass for life on Earth.
Feeding relationships within a community can be represented by 
food chains. All food chains begin with a producer which synthesises 
molecules. This is usually a green plant or alga which makes glucose by 
photosynthesis.
A range of experimental methods using transects and quadrats are used 
by ecologists to determine the distribution and abundance of species in 
an ecosystem.
In relation to abundance of organisms students should be able to:
 • understand the terms mean, mode and median
 • calculate arithmetic means
 • plot and draw appropriate graphs selecting appropriate scales for the 
axes.
MS 2b, 2f, 4a, 4c
Producers are eaten by primary consumers, which in turn may be eaten 
by secondary consumers and then tertiary consumers.
Consumers that kill and eat other animals are predators, and those 
eaten are prey. In a stable community the numbers of predators and 
prey rise and fall in cycles.
WS 1.2
Interpret graphs used 
to model predator-prey 
cycles.
Students should be able to interpret graphs used to model these cycles. MS 4a
Required practical activity 9: measure the population size of a common species in a habitat. Use 
sampling techniques to investigate the effect of a factor on the distribution of this species.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1, 3, 4, 6 and 8.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are given in 
Key opportunities for skills development.

=== PDF page 68 ===
69
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.7.2.2  How materials are cycled
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should:
 • recall that many different materials cycle through the abiotic and 
biotic components of an ecosystem
 • explain the importance of the carbon and water cycles to living 
organisms.
All materials in the living world are recycled to provide the building 
blocks for future organisms.
The carbon cycle returns carbon from organisms to the atmosphere as 
carbon dioxide to be used by plants in photosynthesis.
The water cycle provides fresh water for plants and animals on land 
before draining into the seas. Water is continuously evaporated and 
precipitated.
Students are not expected to study the nitrogen cycle.
Students should be able to explain the role of microorganisms in cycling 
materials through an ecosystem by returning carbon to the atmosphere 
as carbon dioxide and mineral ions to the soil.
WS 1.2
Interpret and explain the 
processes in diagrams 
of the carbon cycle, the 
water cycle.
There are links with the 
water cycle to GCSE 
Chemistry 4.9.1.2 The 
Earth’s early atmosphere.
4.7.2.3  Decomposition (biology only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to explain how temperature, water and 
availability of oxygen affect the rate of decay of biological material.
Students should be able to:
 • calculate rate changes in the decay of biological material
 • translate information between numerical and graphical form
 • plot and draw appropriate graphs selecting appropriate scales for the 
axes.
MS 1c, 4a, 4c
Gardeners and farmers try to provide optimum conditions for rapid 
decay of waste biological material. The compost produced is used as a 
natural fertiliser for growing garden plants or crops.
Anaerobic decay produces methane gas. Biogas generators can be 
used to produce methane gas as a fuel.
Required practical activity 10: investigate the effect of temperature on the rate of decay of fresh milk 
by measuring pH change.
AT skills covered by this practical activity: AT 1, 3, 4 and 5.
This practical activity also provides opportunities to develop WS and MS. Details of all skills are given in 
Key opportunities for skills development.

=== PDF page 69 ===
70
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.7.2.4  Impact of environmental change (biology only) (HT only)
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to evaluate the impact of environmental 
changes on the distribution of species in an ecosystem given 
appropriate information.
Environmental changes affect the distribution of species in an 
ecosystem. These changes include:
 • temperature
 • availability of water
 • composition of atmospheric gases.
The changes may be seasonal, geographic or caused by human 
interaction.
WS 1.4
There are links with this 
content to Biodiversity 
and the effect of 
human interaction on 
ecosystems.
4.7.3  Biodiversity and the effect of human interaction on ecosystems
4.7.3.1  Biodiversity
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Biodiversity is the variety of all the different species of organisms on 
earth, or within an ecosystem.
A great biodiversity ensures the stability of ecosystems by reducing 
the dependence of one species on another for food, shelter and the 
maintenance of the physical environment.
The future of the human species on Earth relies on us maintaining 
a good level of biodiversity. Many human activities are reducing 
biodiversity and only recently have measures been taken to try to stop 
this reduction.
WS 1.4
Explain how waste, 
deforestation and global 
warming have an impact 
on biodiversity.
4.7.3.2  Waste management
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Rapid growth in the human population and an increase in the standard 
of living mean that increasingly more resources are used and more 
waste is produced. Unless waste and chemical materials are properly 
handled, more pollution will be caused.
Pollution can occur:
 • in water, from sewage, fertiliser or toxic chemicals
 • in air, from smoke and acidic gases
 • on land, from landfill and from toxic chemicals.
Pollution kills plants and animals which can reduce biodiversity.
There are links with 
this content to GCSE 
Chemistry 4.9.3.1 
Atmospheric pollutants 
from fuels.

=== PDF page 70 ===
71
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.7.3.3  Land use
Content Key opportunities for skills 
development
Humans reduce the amount of land available for other animals and 
plants by building, quarrying, farming and dumping waste.
The destruction of peat bogs, and other areas of peat to produce 
garden compost, reduces the area of this habitat and thus the 
variety of different plant, animal and microorganism species that live 
there (biodiversity).
The decay or burning of the peat releases carbon dioxide into the 
atmosphere.
WS 1.4, 1.5
Understand the conflict 
between the need for cheap 
available compost to increase 
food production and the need 
to conserve peat bogs and 
peatlands as habitats for 
biodiversity and to reduce 
carbon dioxide emissions.
There are links within this 
section to Global warming.
There are links 
within this section to 
Factors affecting food security 
(biology only).
4.7.3.4  Deforestation
Content Key opportunities for skills 
development
Large-scale deforestation in tropical areas has occurred to:
 • provide land for cattle and rice fields
 • grow crops for biofuels.
WS 1.4
Evaluate the environmental 
implications of deforestation.
4.7.3.5  Global warming
Content Key opportunities for skills 
development
Students should be able to describe some of the biological 
consequences of global warming.
Levels of carbon dioxide and methane in the atmosphere are 
increasing, and contribute to ‘global warming’.
WS 1.6
Understand that the scientific 
consensus about global 
warming and climate change is 
based on systematic reviews 
of thousands of peer reviewed 
publications.
WS 1.3
Explain why evidence is 
uncertain or incomplete in a 
complex context.

=== PDF page 71 ===
72
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.7.3.6  Maintaining biodiversity
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe both positive and negative human 
interactions in an ecosystem and explain their impact on biodiversity.
Scientists and concerned citizens have put in place programmes to 
reduce the negative effects of humans on ecosystems and biodiversity.
These include:
 • breeding programmes for endangered species
 • protection and regeneration of rare habitats
 • reintroduction of field margins and hedgerows in agricultural areas 
where farmers grow only one type of crop
 • reduction of deforestation and carbon dioxide emissions by some 
governments
 • recycling resources rather than dumping waste in landfill.
WS 1.4, 1.5
Evaluate given information 
about methods that 
can be used to tackle 
problems caused by 
human impacts on the 
environment.
Explain and evaluate the 
conflicting pressures on 
maintaining biodiversity 
given appropriate 
information.
4.7.4  Trophic levels in an ecosystem (biology only)
4.7.4.1  Trophic levels
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe the differences between the trophic 
levels of organisms within an ecosystem.
Trophic levels can be represented by numbers, starting at level 1 with 
plants and algae. Further trophic levels are numbered subsequently 
according to how far the organism is along the food chain.
Level 1: Plants and algae make their own food and are called producers.
Level 2: Herbivores eat plants/algae and are called primary consumers.
Level 3: Carnivores that eat herbivores are called secondary consumers.
Level 4: Carnivores that eat other carnivores are called tertiary 
consumers. Apex predators are carnivores with no predators.
Decomposers break down dead plant and animal matter by secreting 
enzymes into the environment. Small soluble food molecules then 
diffuse into the microorganism.

=== PDF page 72 ===
73
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.7.4.2  Pyramids of biomass
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Pyramids of biomass can be constructed to represent the relative 
amount of biomass in each level of a food chain. Trophic level 1 is at the 
bottom of the pyramid.
WS 1.2
Students should be able to construct accurate pyramids of biomass 
from appropriate data.
MS 2c
4.7.4.3  Transfer of biomass
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to:
 • describe pyramids of biomass
 • explain how biomass is lost between the different trophic levels.
Producers are mostly plants and algae which transfer about 1 % of the 
incident energy from light for photosynthesis.
Only approximately 10 % of the biomass from each trophic level is 
transferred to the level above it.
Losses of biomass are due to:
 • not all the ingested material is absorbed, some is egested as faeces
 • some absorbed material is lost as waste, such as carbon dioxide and 
water in respiration and water and urea in urine.
Large amounts of glucose are used in respiration.
MS 1c
Calculate the efficiency of 
biomass transfer between 
trophic levels.
Students should be able to calculate the efficiency of biomass transfers 
between trophic levels by percentages or fractions of mass.
Students should be able to explain how this affects the number of 
organisms at each trophic level.
MS 1c

=== PDF page 73 ===
74
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.7.5  Food production (biology only)
4.7.5.1  Factors affecting food security
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe some of the biological factors 
affecting levels of food security.
Food security is having enough food to feed a population.
Biological factors which are threatening food security include:
 • the increasing birth rate has threatened food security in some 
countries
 • changing diets in developed countries means scarce food resources 
are transported around the world
 • new pests and pathogens that affect farming
 • environmental changes that affect food production, such as 
widespread famine occurring in some countries if rains fail
 • the cost of agricultural inputs
 • conflicts that have arisen in some parts of the world which affect the 
availability of water or food.
Sustainable methods must be found to feed all people on Earth.
WS 1.4
Interpret population and 
food production statistics 
to evaluate food security.
4.7.5.2  Farming techniques
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
The efficiency of food production can be improved by restricting energy 
transfer from food animals to the environment. This can be done by 
limiting their movement and by controlling the temperature of their 
surroundings.
Some animals are fed high protein foods to increase growth.
WS 1.3
Understand that some 
people have ethical 
objections to some 
modern intensive farming 
methods.
WS 1.4
Evaluate the advantages 
and disadvantages 
of modern farming 
techniques.

=== PDF page 74 ===
75
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.7.5.3  Sustainable fisheries
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Fish stocks in the oceans are declining. It is important to maintain fish 
stocks at a level where breeding continues or certain species may 
disappear altogether in some areas.
Control of net size and the introduction of fishing quotas play important 
roles in conservation of fish stocks at a sustainable level.
WS 1.4
Understand how 
application of different 
fishing techniques 
promotes recovery of fish 
stocks.
4.7.5.4  Role of biotechnology
Content Key opportunities for 
skills development
Students should be able to describe and explain some possible 
biotechnical and agricultural solutions, including genetic modification, to 
the demands of the growing human population.
Modern biotechnology techniques enable large quantities of 
microorganisms to be cultured for food.
The fungus Fusarium is useful for producing mycoprotein, a protein-rich 
food suitable for vegetarians. The fungus is grown on glucose syrup, in 
aerobic conditions, and the biomass is harvested and purified.
A genetically modified bacterium produces human insulin. When 
harvested and purified this is used to treat people with diabetes.
GM crops could provide more food or food with an improved nutritional 
value such as golden rice.
There are links 
with this content to 
Genetic engineering.

=== PDF page 75 ===
76
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
4.8  Key ideas
The complex and diverse phenomena of the natural world can be described in terms of a small number 
of key ideas in biology.
These key ideas are of universal application, and we have embedded them throughout the subject 
content. They underpin many aspects of the science assessment.
These ideas include:
 • life processes depend on molecules whose structure is related to their function
 • the fundamental units of living organisms are cells, which may be part of highly adapted structures 
including tissues, organs and organ systems, enabling living processes to be performed effectively
 • living organisms may form populations of single species, communities of many species and 
ecosystems, interacting with each other, with the environment and with humans in many different 
ways
 • living organisms are interdependent and show adaptations to their environment
 • life on Earth is dependent on photosynthesis in which green plants and algae trap light from the Sun 
to fix carbon dioxide and combine it with hydrogen from water to make organic compounds and 
oxygen
 • organic compounds are used as fuels in cellular respiration to allow the other chemical reactions 
necessary for life
 • the chemicals in ecosystems are continually cycling through the natural world
 • the characteristics of a living organism are influenced by its genome and its interaction with the 
environment
 • evolution occurs by a process of natural selection and accounts both for biodiversity and how 
organisms are all related to varying degrees.

=== PDF page 76 ===
77
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
5  Scheme of assessment
Find past papers and mark schemes, and specimen papers for new courses, on our website at 
aqa.org.uk/pastpapers
This specification is designed to be taken over two years.
This is a linear qualification. In order to achieve the award, students must complete all assessments at 
the end of the course and in the same series.
GCSE exams and certification for this specification are available for the first time in May/June 2018 and 
then every May/June for the life of the specification.
All materials are available in English only.
Our GCSE exams in Biology include questions that allow students to demonstrate:
 • their knowledge and understanding of the content developed in one section or topic, including the 
associated mathematical and practical skills or
 • their ability to apply mathematical and practical skills to areas of content they are not normally 
developed in or
 • their ability to draw together different areas of knowledge and understanding within one answer.
A range of question types will be used, including multiple choice, short answer and those that require 
extended responses. Extended response questions will be of sufficient length to allow students to 
demonstrate their ability to construct and develop a sustained line of reasoning which is coherent, 
relevant, substantiated and logically structured. Extended responses may be prose, extended 
calculations, or a combination of both, as appropriate to the question. 
5.1  Aims and learning outcomes
Biology should be taught in progressively greater depth over the course of Key Stage 3 and 
Key Stage 4. GCSE outcomes may reflect or build upon subject content which is typically taught at 
Key Stage 3. There is no expectation that teaching of such content should be repeated during the 
GCSE course where it has already been covered at an earlier stage. 
GCSE study in biology provides the foundations for understanding the material world. Scientific 
understanding is changing our lives and is vital to the world’s future prosperity, and all students 
should be taught essential aspects of the knowledge, methods, processes and uses of science. They 
should be helped to appreciate how the complex and diverse phenomena of the natural world can be 
described in terms of a small number of key ideas relating to the sciences which are both inter-linked, 
and are of universal application. These key ideas include:
 • the use of conceptual models and theories to make sense of the observed diversity of natural 
phenomena
 • the assumption that every effect has one or more cause
 • that change is driven by differences between different objects and systems when they interact
 • that many such interactions occur over a distance without direct contact
 • that science progresses through a cycle of hypothesis, practical experimentation, observation, theory 
development and review
 • that quantitative analysis is a central element both of many theories and of scientific methods of 
inquiry.

=== PDF page 77 ===
78
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
These key ideas are relevant in different ways and with different emphases in biology, chemistry and 
physics. Examples of their relevance to biology are given below.
The GCSE specification in biology should enable students to:
 • develop scientific knowledge and conceptual understanding of biology
 • develop understanding of the nature, processes and methods of biology through different types of 
scientific enquiries that help them to answer scientific questions about the world around them
 • develop and learn to apply observational, practical, modelling, enquiry and problem-solving skills, 
both in the laboratory, in the field and in other learning environments
 • develop their ability to evaluate claims based on biology through critical analysis of the methodology, 
evidence and conclusions, both qualitatively and quantitatively.
Biology should be studied in ways that help students to develop curiosity about the natural world, 
insight into how science works, and appreciation of its relevance to their everyday lives. The scope 
and nature of such study should be broad, coherent, practical and satisfying, and thereby encourage 
students to be inspired, motivated and challenged by the subject and its achievements.
5.2  Assessment objectives
Assessment objectives (AOs) are set by Ofqual and are the same across all GCSE Biology 
specifications and all exam boards.
The exams will measure how students have achieved the following assessment objectives.
 • AO1: Demonstrate knowledge and understanding of: scientific ideas; scientific techniques and 
procedures.
 • AO2: Apply knowledge and understanding of: scientific ideas; scientific enquiry, techniques and 
procedures.
 • AO3: Analyse information and ideas to: interpret and evaluate; make judgements and draw 
conclusions; develop and improve experimental procedures.
5.2.1  Assessment objective weightings for GCSE Biology
Assessment objectives (AOs) Component weightings 
(approx %)
Overall weighting 
(approx %)
Paper 1 Paper 2
AO1 37 ‒ 43 37 ‒ 43 40
AO2 37 ‒ 43 37 ‒ 43 40
AO3 17 ‒ 23 17 ‒ 23 20
Overall weighting of components 50 50 100

=== PDF page 78 ===
79
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
5.3  Assessment weightings
The marks awarded on the papers will be scaled to meet the weighting of the components. Students’ 
final marks will be calculated by adding together the scaled marks for each component. Grade 
boundaries will be set using this total scaled mark. The scaling and total scaled marks are shown in the 
table below.
Component Maximum raw mark Scaling factor Maximum scaled 
mark
Paper 1 100 x1 100
Paper 2 100 x1 100
Total scaled mark: 200

=== PDF page 79 ===
80
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
6  General administration
You can find information about all aspects of administration, as well as all the forms you need, at 
aqa.org.uk/examsadmin
6.1  Entries and codes
You only need to make one entry for each qualification – this will cover all the question papers, non-
exam assessment and certification.
Every specification is given a national discount (classification) code by the Department for Education 
(DfE), which indicates its subject area.
If a student takes two specifications with the same discount code:
 • further and higher education providers are likely to take the view that they have only achieved one of 
the two qualifications
 • only one of them will be counted for the purpose of the School and College Performance tables – the 
DfE’s rules on ‘early entry’ will determine which one.
Please check this before your students start their course.
Qualification title Tier AQA entry 
code
DfE discount 
code
AQA GCSE in Biology Foundation 8461F RH3
Higher 8461H
This specification complies with:
 • Ofqual General conditions of recognition that apply to all regulated qualifications
 • Ofqual GCSE qualification level conditions that apply to all GCSEs
 • Ofqual GCSE subject level conditions that apply to all GCSEs in this subject
 • all other relevant regulatory documents.
The Ofqual qualification accreditation number (QAN) is  601/8752/9.
6.2  Overlaps with other qualifications
There are no overlaps with any other AQA qualifications at this level.
6.3  Awarding grades and reporting results
The qualification will be graded on a nine-point scale: 1 – 9 – where 9 is the best grade.
A student taking Foundation Tier assessments will be awarded a grade within the range of 1 to 5. 
Students who fail to reach the minimum standard for grade 1 will be recorded as U (unclassified) and 
will not receive a qualification certificate.
A student taking Higher Tier assessments will be awarded a grade within the range of 4 to 9. A student 
sitting the Higher Tier who just fails to achieve grade 4 will be awarded an allowed grade 3. Students 
who fail to reach the minimum standard for the allowed grade 3 will be recorded as U (unclassified) and 
will not receive a qualification certificate.

=== PDF page 80 ===
81
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
6.4  Re-sits and shelf life
Students can re-sit the qualification as many times as they wish, within the shelf life of the qualification.
6.5  Previous learning and prerequisites
There are no previous learning requirements. Any requirements for entry to a course based on this 
specification are at the discretion of schools and colleges.
6.6  Access to assessment: diversity and inclusion
General qualifications are designed to prepare students for a wide range of occupations and further 
study. Therefore our qualifications must assess a wide range of competences.
The subject criteria have been assessed to see if any of the skills or knowledge required present any 
possible difficulty to any students, whatever their ethnic background, religion, sex, age, disability or 
sexuality. If any difficulties were encountered, the criteria were reviewed again to make sure that tests of 
specific competences were only included if they were important to the subject.
As members of the Joint Council for Qualifications (JCQ) we participate in the production of the JCQ 
document Access Arrangements and Reasonable Adjustments: General and Vocational qualifications. 
We follow these guidelines when assessing the needs of individual students who may require an access 
arrangement or reasonable adjustment. This document is published on the JCQ website at jcq.org.uk
6.6.1  Students with disabilities and special needs
We can make arrangements for disabled students and students with special needs to help them access 
the assessments, as long as the competences being tested are not changed. Access arrangements 
must be agreed before the assessment. For example, a Braille paper would be a reasonable adjustment 
for a Braille reader but not for a student who does not read Braille.
We are required by the Equality Act 2010 to make reasonable adjustments to remove or lessen any 
disadvantage that affects a disabled student.
If you have students who need access arrangements or reasonable adjustments, you can apply using 
the Access arrangements online service at aqa.org.uk/eaqa
6.6.2  Special consideration
We can give special consideration to students who have been disadvantaged at the time of the 
assessment through no fault of their own – for example a temporary illness, injury or serious problem 
such as the death of a relative. We can only do this after the assessment.
Your exams officer should apply online for special consideration at aqa.org.uk/eaqa 
For more information and advice about access arrangements, reasonable adjustments and special 
consideration please see aqa.org.uk/access or email accessarrangementsqueries@aqa.org.uk
6.7  Working with AQA for the first time
If your school or college has not previously offered any AQA specification, you need to register as an 
AQA centre to offer our specifications to your students. Find out how at aqa.org.uk/becomeacentre

=== PDF page 81 ===
82
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
6.8  Private candidates
A private candidate is someone who enters for exams through an AQA approved school or college but 
is not enrolled as a student there.
If you are a private candidate you may be self-taught, home schooled or have private tuition, with a 
tutor or distance learning organisation. You must be based in the UK.
All GCSE science students need to complete practical experiments as part of their learning. A minimum 
of 10 experiments are required for this biology specification. This equips students with essential 
practical knowledge and experiences, enables them to put theory into practice and helps them develop 
skills for higher education.
Private candidates wishing to study GCSE sciences need to find a school or college who will let them 
carry out the required practicals. Schools or colleges accepting private candidates must make provision 
for them to carry out all of the required practical activities as specified in Practical assessment. This is 
likely to incur a cost. We recommend you contact your local schools and colleges to organise this as 
early as possible.
Students won’t be assessed whilst conducting their practical work, but the written exam will 
include questions on it. Therefore, candidates lacking hands on experience will be at an immediate 
disadvantage.
If you have any queries as a private candidate, you can:
 • speak to the Exams officer at the school or college where you intend to take your exams
 • visit our website at aqa.org.uk/exams-administration
 • email: privatecandidates@aqa.org.uk

=== PDF page 82 ===
83
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
7  Mathematical requirements
Students will be required to demonstrate the following mathematics skills in GCSE Biology 
assessments.
Questions will target maths skills at a level of demand appropriate to each subject. In Foundation Tier 
papers questions assessing maths requirements will not be lower than that expected at Key Stage 3 
(as outlined in Mathematics Programmes of Study: Key Stage 3, by the DfE, document reference DFE-
00179-2013). In Higher Tier papers questions assessing maths requirements will not be lower than that 
of questions and tasks in assessments for the Foundation Tier in a GCSE qualification in mathematics.
1 Arithmetic and numerical computation
a Recognise and use expressions in decimal form
b Recognise and use expressions in standard form
c Use ratios, fractions and percentages
d Make estimates of the results of simple calculations
2 Handling data
a Use an appropriate number of significant figures
b Find arithmetic means
c Construct and interpret frequency tables and diagrams, bar charts and histograms
d Understand the principles of sampling as applied to scientific data
e Understand simple probability
f Understand the terms mean, mode and median
g Use a scatter diagram to identify a correlation between two variables
h Make order of magnitude calculations
3 Algebra
a Understand and use the symbols: =, <, <<, >>, >, ∝ , ~
d Solve simple algebraic equations
4 Graphs
a Translate information between graphical and numeric form
b Understand that y = mx + c represents a linear relationship
c Plot two variables from experimental or other data
d Determine the slope and intercept of a linear graph

=== PDF page 83 ===
84
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
5 Geometry and trigonometry
c Calculate areas of triangles and rectangles, surface areas and volumes of cubes
Mathematical skills references are taken from the DfE subject criteria. Where there is a break in 
a sequence, the ‘missing’ references are criteria not applicable to GCSE Biology and have been 
deliberately omitted from this list.

=== PDF page 84 ===
85
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
8  Practical assessment
Practical work is at the heart of biology, so we have placed it at the heart of this specification.
There are three interconnected, but separate reasons for doing practical work in schools. They are:
1 To support and consolidate scientific concepts (knowledge and understanding).
 This is done by applying and developing what is known and understood of abstract ideas and 
models. Through practical work we are able to make sense of new information and observations, 
and provide insights into the development of scientific thinking.
2 To develop investigative skills. These transferable skills include:
 • devising and investigating testable questions
 • identifying and controlling variables
 • analysing, interpreting and evaluating data.
3 To build and master practical skills such as:
 • using specialist equipment to take measurements
 • handling and manipulating equipment with confidence and fluency
 • recognising hazards and planning how to minimise risk.
By focusing on the reasons for carrying out a particular practical, teachers will help their students 
understand the subject better, to develop the skills of a scientist and to master the manipulative skills 
required for further study or jobs in STEM subjects.
Questions in the written exams will draw on the knowledge and understanding students have gained 
by carrying out the practical activities listed below. These questions will count for at least 15 % of the 
overall marks for the qualification. Many of our questions will also focus on investigative skills and how 
well students can apply what they know to practical situations often in novel contexts.
The practical handbook will help teachers plan purposeful practical work that develops both practical 
and investigative skills and encourages the thinking behind the doing so that they can reach their 
potential.
Teachers are encouraged to further develop students’ abilities by providing other opportunities for 
practical work throughout the course. Opportunities are signposted in the right hand column of the 
content section of this specification for further skills development.
Our biology scheme of work will provide ideas and suggestions for good practical activities that are 
manageable with large classes.
8.1  Use of apparatus and techniques
All students are expected to have carried out the required practical activities in 
Required practical activities.
The following list includes opportunities for choice and use of appropriate laboratory apparatus for a 
variety of experimental problem-solving and/or enquiry-based activities.
Safety is an overriding requirement for all practical work. Schools and colleges are responsible for 
ensuring that appropriate safety procedures are followed whenever their students undertake practical 
work, and should undertake full risk assessments.
Use and production of appropriate scientific diagrams to set up and record apparatus and procedures 
used in practical work is common to all science subjects and should be included wherever appropriate.

=== PDF page 85 ===
86
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
AT 1 ‒ 7 are common with combined science. AT 8 is biology only.
Apparatus and techniques
AT 1 Use of appropriate apparatus to make and record a range of measurements 
accurately, including length, area, mass, time, temperature, volume of liquids and 
gases, and pH (links to A-level AT a).
AT 2 Safe use of appropriate heating devices and techniques including use of a Bunsen 
burner and a water bath or electric heater (links to A-level AT a).
AT 3 Use of appropriate apparatus and techniques for the observation and measurement 
of biological changes and/or processes.
AT 4 Safe and ethical use of living organisms (plants or animals) to measure physiological 
functions and responses to the environment (links to A-level AT h).
AT 5 Measurement of rates of reaction by a variety of methods including production of 
gas, uptake of water and colour change of indicator.
AT 6 Application of appropriate sampling techniques to investigate the distribution and 
abundance of organisms in an ecosystem via direct use in the field (links to A-level 
AT k).
AT 7 Use of appropriate apparatus, techniques and magnification, including 
microscopes, to make observations of biological specimens and produce labelled 
scientific drawings (links to A-level AT d and e).
AT 8
(Biology only)
Use of appropriate techniques and qualitative reagents to identify biological 
molecules and processes in more complex and problem-solving contexts including 
continuous sampling in an investigation (links to A-level AT f).
8.2  Required practical activities
The following practical activities must be carried out by all students taking GCSE Biology.
Following any revision by the Secretary of State of the apparatus or techniques specified, we will review 
and revise the required practical activities as appropriate.
Schools and colleges will be informed of any changes in a timely manner and the amended 
specification will be published, highlighting the changes accordingly.
Teachers are encouraged to vary their approach to these practical activities. Some are more suitable for 
highly structured approaches that develop key techniques while others allow opportunities for students 
to develop investigative approaches.
This list is not designed to limit the practical activities carried out by students. A rich practical 
experience will include more than the ten required practical activities. The explicit teaching of practical 
skills will build students’ competence. Many teachers will also use practical approaches to introduce 
content knowledge in the course of their normal teaching.
Schools and colleges are required to provide a practical science statement to AQA, that is true and 
accurate written statement, which confirms that it has taken reasonable steps to secure that each 
student has:
 • completed the required practical activities detailed in this specification
 • made a contemporaneous record of such work undertaken during the activities and the knowledge, 
skills and understanding derived from those activities.

=== PDF page 86 ===
87
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
We will provide a form for the head of centre to sign. You must submit the form to us by the date 
published at aqa.org.uk/science. We will contact schools and colleges directly with the deadline date 
and timely reminders if the form is not received. Failure to send this form counts as malpractice/
maladministration, and may result in formal action or warning for the school or college.
Practicals 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9 are common with GCSE Combined Science: Trilogy and GCSE 
Combined Science: Synergy. Practicals 2, 8 and 10 are GCSE Biology only.
8.2.1  Required practical activity 1
Use a light microscope to observe, draw and label a selection of plant and animal cells. 
A magnification scale must be included.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to record length and area.
AT 7 – use a microscope to make observations of biological specimens and produce labelled scientific 
drawings.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
MS 1d, 3a – use estimations to judge the relative size or area of sub-cellular structures.
8.2.2  Required practical activity 2 (biology only)
Investigate the effect of antiseptics or antibiotics on bacterial growth using agar plates and measuring 
zones of inhibition.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to record length and area.
AT 3 – use appropriate apparatus and techniques to observe and measure the process of bacterial 
growth.
AT 4 – safe and ethical use of bacteria to measure physiological function and response to antibiotics 
and antiseptics in the environment.
AT 8 – the use of appropriate techniques and qualitative reagents in problem-solving contexts to find 
the best antibiotic to use or the best concentration of antiseptic to use.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – develop hypotheses about the effectiveness of the antibiotics or antiseptics to be used.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments to make observations, test hypotheses and explore phenomena.
WS 2.4 – have due regard for accuracy of measurements, and health and safety when using bacterial 
cultures.
MS 5c – calculate cross-sectional areas of bacterial cultures and clear agar jelly using πr2.

=== PDF page 87 ===
88
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
8.2.3  Required practical activity 3
Investigate the effect of a range of concentrations of salt or sugar solutions on the mass of plant tissue. 
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to record mass and time.
AT 3 – use appropriate apparatus and techniques to observe and measure the process of osmosis.
AT 5 – measure the rate of osmosis by water uptake.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use the theory of osmosis to create hypotheses on plant tissue.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments to test hypotheses.
WS 2.4 – have due regard for accuracy of measurements and health and safety.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements of mass.
WS 2.7 – evaluate the method and suggest possible improvements and further investigations.
WS 3.1 – present observations and other data in graphical form.
WS 3.2 – translate mass data into graphical form.
MS 1a, 1c – use simple compound measures of rate of water uptake.
MS 1c – use percentages and calculate percentage gain and loss of mass of plant tissue.
MS 2b – find mean mass of plant tissue.
MS 4a, 4b, 4c, 4d – plot, draw and interpret appropriate graphs.
8.2.4  Required practical activity 4
Use qualitative reagents to test for a range of carbohydrates, lipids and proteins. 
To include: Benedict’s test for sugars; iodine test for starch; and Biuret reagent for protein.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques requirements.
AT 2 – safe use of a Bunsen burner and a boiling water bath. 
AT 8 – use of qualitative reagents to identify biological molecules. 
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of 
apparatus, and health and safety considerations.

=== PDF page 88 ===
89
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
8.2.5  Required practical activity 5
Investigate the effect of pH on the rate of reaction of amylase enzyme. 
Students should use a continuous sampling technique to determine the time taken to completely 
digest a starch solution at a range of pH values. Iodine reagent is to be used to test for starch every 
30 seconds. Temperature must be controlled by use of a water bath or electric heater.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to record the volumes of liquids, time and pH.
AT 2 – safe use of a water bath or electric heater.
AT 5 – measure the rate of reaction by the colour change of iodine indicator.
AT 8 – use of qualitative iodine reagent to identify starch by continuous sampling.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations and hypothesis on how pH affects amylase activity.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments appropriately having due regard for the correct manipulation of 
apparatus, the accuracy of measurements, and health and safety.
WS 2.5 – describe the appropriate sampling technique to ensure samples are representative.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements of time.
WS 3.1 – present a graph of amylase activity against pH.
WS 3.2 – translate numeric data into graphical form.
MS 1a, 1c – carry out rate calculations for chemical reactions.
8.2.6  Required practical activity 6
Investigate the effect of light intensity on the rate of photosynthesis using an aquatic organism such as 
pondweed. 
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to record the rate of production of oxygen gas produced; and to 
measure and control the temperature of water in a large beaker that acts as a ‘heat shield’.
AT 2 – use a thermometer to measure and control temperature of water bath.
AT 3 – use appropriate apparatus and techniques to observe and measure the process of oxygen gas 
production.
AT 4 – safe and ethical use and disposal of living pondweed to measure physiological functions and 
responses to light.
AT 5 – measuring rate of reaction by oxygen gas production.

=== PDF page 89 ===
90
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories and explanations to develop hypotheses on how light intensity affects 
the rate of photosynthesis.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments to test hypotheses.
WS 2.5 – recognise that multiple samples will be needed at each light intensity.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations of gas production.
WS 3.1 – present a graph of light intensity against rate of photosynthesis.
WS 3.2 – translate numeric data into graphical form.
MS 1a, 1c – measure and understand the rate of photosynthesis reactions.
MS 4a, 4c – plot and draw appropriate graphs of rate of photosynthesis against light intensity selecting 
appropriate scale for axes.
MS 3a, 3d (HT) – understand and use inverse proportion: the inverse square law and light intensity in 
the context of photosynthesis.
8.2.7  Required practical activity 7
Plan and carry out an investigation into the effect of a factor on human reaction time.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to record time.
AT 3 – selecting appropriate apparatus and techniques to measure the process of reaction time.
AT 4 – safe and ethical use of humans to measure physiological function of reaction time and responses 
to a chosen factor.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
MS 4a – translate information between numerical and graphical forms.
8.2.8  Required practical activity 8 (biology only)
Investigate the effect of light or gravity on the growth of newly germinated seedlings.
Record results both as length measurements and as accurate, labelled biological drawings to show the 
effects.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the Apparatus and Techniques 
requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to record length and time.
AT 3 – selecting appropriate apparatus and techniques to measure the growth of shoots or roots.

=== PDF page 90 ===
91
GCSE Biology (8461). For exams 2018 onwards. Version 1.0
Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
AT 4 – safe and ethical use of plants to measure physiological function of growth in response to light or 
gravity.
AT 7 – observations of biological specimens to produce labelled scientific drawings.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments to make observations to explore the phenomena of plant responses.
WS 2.3 – apply knowledge of a range of techniques, apparatus and materials appropriate to the 
experiment.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements using length and biological drawings.
WS 2.7 – suggest improvements and further investigations.
WS 3.1 – present observations as tables, graphs or drawings.
8.2.9  Required practical activity 9
Measure the population size of a common species in a habitat. 
Use sampling techniques to investigate the effect of a factor on the distribution of this species.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to record length and area.
AT 3 – use transect lines and quadrats to measure distribution of a species.
AT 4 – safe and ethical use of organisms and response to a factor in the environment.
AT 6 – application of appropriate sampling techniques to investigate the distribution and abundance of 
organisms in an ecosystem via direct use in the field.
AT 8 – use of appropriate techniques in more complex contexts including continuous sampling in an 
investigation.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – develop hypotheses regarding distribution of a species as a consequence of a factor.
WS 2.2 – plan experiments to test hypotheses on distribution.
WS 2.3 – apply a range of techniques, including the use of transects and quadrats, and the 
measurement of an abiotic factor.
MS 1d, 3a – estimates of population size based on sampling.
MS 2b – calculate arithmetic means.
MS 2d – understand principles of sampling.
MS 2f – understand the terms mean, mode and median as applied to ecological data.
MS 4c – plot and draw appropriate graphs selecting appropriate scales for the axes.

=== PDF page 91 ===
92
 Visit aqa.org.uk/8461 for the most up-to-date specification, resources, support and administration
8.2.10  Required practical activity 10 (biology only)
Investigate the effect of temperature on the rate of decay of fresh milk by measuring pH change.
Apparatus and techniques
In doing this practical students should cover these parts of the apparatus and techniques requirements.
AT 1 – use appropriate apparatus to record temperature and pH.
AT 3 – the use of appropriate apparatus to measure anaerobic decay.
AT 4 – safe use of microorganisms.
AT 5 – measurement of rate of decay by pH change.
Key opportunities for skills development
In doing this practical there are key opportunities for students to develop the following skills.
WS 2.1 – use scientific theories to make a hypothesis about the effect of temperature on rate of decay.
WS 2.4 – carry out experiments with due regard for the correct manipulation of apparatus, the accuracy 
of measurements and health and safety considerations.
WS 2.6 – make and record observations and measurements.
WS 2.7 – evaluate method and identify possible improvements.
MS 1c – calculate rate changes in the decay of biological material.
MS 4a – translate information between numerical and graphical form.
MS 4c – plot and draw appropriate graphs selecting appropriate scales for the axes.

=== PDF page 92 ===
GCSE
BIOLOGY
(8461)
Specification
For teaching from September 2016 onwards
For exams in 2018 onwards
Version 1.0 21 April 2016
Copyright © 2016 AQA and its licensors. All rights reserved.
AQA retains the copyright on all its publications, including the specifications. However, schools and colleges registered with AQA are permitted to copy 
material from this specification for their own internal use.
AQA Education (AQA) is a registered charity (number 1073334) and a company limited by guarantee registered in England and Wales (company number 
3644723). Our registered address is AQA, Devas Street, Manchester M15 6EX.
aqa.org.uk
G00568
Get help and support
Visit our website for information, guidance, support and resources at aqa.org.uk/subjects/8461
You can talk directly to the science subject team
E: gcsescience@aqa.org.uk
T: 01483 477 756 
