C720U101
01
PJ*(X23-C720U10-1-R1)© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
GCSE
C720U10-1
MONDAY, 13 MAY 2024 – MORNING
ENGLISH LITERATURE
COMPONENT 1
Shakespeare and Poetry
2 hours
S24-C720U10-1-R1
    SEC TION A
     Pag es
  Romeo and Juliet 2–3
  Macbeth 4–5
  Othello 6–7
  Much Ado About Nothing 8–9
  Henry V 10 –11
  The Merchant of Venice 12–13
SECTION B
  Poetry 14–16
ADDITIONAL MATERIALS
A WJEC pink 16-page answer booklet. The use of a dictionary is not permitted in this
examination.
INSTRUCTIONS TO CANDIDATES
Use black ink or black ball-point pen. Do not use gel pen or correction fluid.
For Section A, answer both questions on the one text you have studied. For Section B, answer
both questions.
Write your answers in the separate answer booklet provided.
Use both sides of the paper. Write only within the white areas of the booklet.
Write the question number in the two boxes in the left-hand margin at the start of each answer,
for example
2 1  .
Leave at least two line spaces between each answer.
INFORMATION FOR CANDIDATES
Each section carries 40 marks.
You are advised to spend your time as follows :  Sect ion A – about one hour
 Sect ion B – about one hour
The number of marks is given in brackets at the end of each question or part-question.
5 marks are allocated for accuracy in spelling, punctuation and the use of vocabulary and sentence
structures in Section A.
PMT

2
(C720U10-1)© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
SECTION A (Shakespeare)
Answer on one text only.
Romeo and Juliet
Answer both 1 1  and 1 2  .
You are advised to spend about 20 minutes on 1 1  , and about 40 minutes on 1 2  .
1 1  Read the extract on the opposite page. Then answer the following question:
 Loo k at how the characters speak and behave here. How do you think an audience
might respond to this part of the play? Refer closely to details from the extract to
support your answer. [15 ]
1 2  Write about the relationship between Romeo and Juliet and how it is presented at
different points in the play. [25]
 *5 of t his question’s marks are allocated for accuracy in spelling, punctuation and the
use of vocabulary and sentence structures.
*
PMT

(C720U10-1) Turn over.
C720U101
03
3
© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
Tybal T This, by his voice, should be a Montague.
Fetch me my rapier, boy. What dares the slave
Come hither, covered with an antic face,
To fleer and scorn at our solemnity?
Now by the stock and honour of my kin,
To strike him dead I hold it not a sin.
Capule T Why, how now, kinsman, wherefore storm you so?
Tybal T Uncle, this is a Montague, our foe:
A villain that is hither come in spite,
To scorn at our solemnity this night.
Capule T Young Romeo is it?
Tybal T  ’Ti s he, that villain Romeo.
Capule T Content thee, gentle coz, let him alone,
’A bears him like a portly gentleman;
And to say truth, Verona brags of him
To be a virtuous and well-governed youth.
I would not for the wealth of all this town
Here in my house do him disparagement;
Therefore be patient, take no note of him;
It is my will, the which if thou respect,
Show a fair presence, and put off these frowns,
An ill-beseeming semblance for a feast.
Tybal T It fits when such a villain is a guest:
I’ll not endure him.
Capule T  He shal l be endured.
What, goodman boy, I say he shall, go to!
Am I the master here, or you? go to!
You’ll not endure him? God shall mend my soul,
You’ll make a mutiny among my guests!
You will set cock-a-hoop! you’ll be the man!
Tybal T Why, uncle, ’tis a shame.
Capule T  Go to , go to,
You are a saucy boy. Is’t so indeed?
This trick may chance to scathe you, I know what.
You must contrary me!
PMT

4
(C720U10-1)© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
Macbeth
Answer both 2 1  and 2 2  .
You are advised to spend about 20 minutes on 2 1  , and about 40 minutes on 2 2  .
2 1  Read the extract on the opposite page. Then answer the following question:
 Loo k at how the characters speak and behave here. How do you think an audience
might respond to this part of the play? Refer closely to details from the extract to
support your answer. [15 ]
2 2  For which character in Macbeth do you have the most sympathy? How does
Shakespeare create sympathy for your chosen character? Refer to characters and
events from the play in your answer. [25]
 *5 of t his question’s marks are allocated for accuracy in spelling, punctuation and the
use of vocabulary and sentence structures.
*
PMT

(C720U10-1) Turn over.
C720U101
05
5
© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
Enter the Ghos T of  b anquo  and sits in Ma Cbe Th ’s  place
Ma Cbe Th  Now g ood digestion wait on appetite,
And health on both.
l ennox   May ’t please your highness, sit.
Ma Cbe Th  Her e had we now our country’s honour roofed,
Were the graced person of our Banquo present,
Who may I rather challenge for unkindness
Than pity for mischance.
Ross   His  absence, sir,
Lays blame upon his promise. Please’t your highness
To grace us with your royal company?
Ma Cbe Th  The  table’s full.
l ennox   Her e is a place reserved, sir.
Ma Cbe Th  Where?
l ennox  Her e, my good lord. What is’t that moves your highness?
Ma Cbe Th  Whic h of you have done this?
l o Rds   Wha t, my good lord?
Ma Cbe Th  Thou c anst not say I did it; never shake
Thy gory locks at me!
Ross  Gen tlemen, rise, his highness is not well.
[l ady  Ma Cbe Th  joins the Lords]
l ady  Ma Cbe Th  Sit, worthy friends. My lord is often thus,
And hath been from his youth. Pray you, keep seat.
The fit is momentary; upon a thought
He will again be well. If much you note him
You shall offend him and extend his passion.
Feed, and regard him not. [To
Ma Cbe Th ] Are you a man?
Ma Cbe Th  Ay, a nd a bold one, that dare look on that
Which might appal the devil.
l ady  Ma Cbe Th   O prope r stuff!
This is the very painting of your fear;
This is the air-drawn dagger which you said
Led you to Duncan. O, these flaws and starts,
Impostors to true fear, would well become
A woman’s story at a winter’s fire
Authorised by her grandam. Shame itself!
Why do you make such faces? When all’s done
You look but on a stool.
PMT

6
(C720U10-1)© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
Othello
Answer both 3 1   and 3 2  .
You are advised to spend about 20 minutes on 3 1  , and about 40 minutes on 3 2  .
3 1  Read the extract on the opposite page. Then answer the following question:
 Loo k at how the characters speak and behave here. How do you think an audience
might respond to this part of the play? Refer closely to details from the extract to
support your answer. [15 ]
3 2  Iago is a master of deception. Write about some of the times in Othello where
characters are tricked or deceived by Iago and how Shakespeare presents this. [25]
 *5 of t his question’s marks are allocated for accuracy in spelling, punctuation and the
use of vocabulary and sentence structures.
*
PMT

(C720U10-1) Turn over.
C720U101
07
7
© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
o Thello  Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rust them.
Good signior, you shall more command with years
Than with your weapons.
b Raban Tio  O thou foul thief! Where hast thou stowed my daughter?
Damned as thou art, thou hast enchanted her,
For I’ll refer me to all things of sense,
If she in chains of magic were not bound,
Whether a maid so tender, fair, and happy,
So opposite to marriage that she shunned
The wealthy curlèd darlings of our nation,
Would ever have, t’incur a general mock,
Run from her guardage to the sooty bosom
Of such a thing as thou – to fear, not to delight.
Judge me the world, if ’tis not gross in sense
That thou hast practised on her with foul charms,
Abused her delicate youth with drugs or minerals
That weakens motion. I’ll have’t disputed on;
’Tis probable and palpable to thinking.
I therefore apprehend and do attach thee
For an abuser of the world, a practiser
Of arts inhibited and out of warrant.
Lay hold upon him. If he do resist,
Subdue him at his peril.
o Thello    Hol d your hands,
Both you of my inclining and the rest.
Were it my cue to fight, I should have known it
Without a prompter. Where will you that I go
To answer this your charge?
b Raban Tio   To pri son, till fit time
Of law and course of direct session
Call thee to answer.
PMT

8
(C720U10-1)© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
Much Ado About Nothing
Answer both 4 1   and 4 2  .
You are advised to spend about 20 minutes on 4 1  , and about 40 minutes on 4 2  .
4 1  Read the extract on the opposite page. Then answer the following question:
 Loo k at how the characters speak and behave here. How do you think an audience
might respond to this part of the play? Refer closely to details from the extract to
support your answer. [15 ]
4 2  Write about the relationship between Beatrice and Benedick and how Shakespeare
presents it at different points in the play. [25]
 *5 of t his question’s marks are allocated for accuracy in spelling, punctuation and the
use of vocabulary and sentence structures.
*
PMT

(C720U10-1) Turn over.
9
© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
Claudio  Benedick, didst thou note the daughter of Signor Leonato?
b enedi Ck  I noted her not, but I looked on her.
Claudio  Is she not a modest young lady?
b enedi Ck  Do you question me as an honest man should do, for my simple true judgement? Or
would you have me speak after my custom, as being a professed tyrant to their sex?
Claudio  No, I pray thee speak in sober judgement.
b enedi Ck  Why i’faith, methinks she’s too low for a high praise, too brown for a fair praise, and
too little for a great praise. Only this commendation I can afford her, that were she
other than she is, she were unhandsome, and being no other, but as she is – I do
not like her.
Claudio  Thou thinkest I am in sport. I pray thee, tell me truly how thou lik’st her?
b enedi Ck  Would you buy her, that you enquire after her?
Claudio  Can the world buy such a jewel?
b enedi Ck  Yea, and a case to put it into. But speak you this with a sad brow? Or do you play
the flouting Jack, to tell us Cupid is a good hare fin der, and Vulcan a rare carpenter?
Come, in what key shall a man take you, to go in the song?
Claudio  In mine eye, she is the sweetest lady that ever I looked on.
b enedi Ck  I can see yet without spectacles, and I see no such matter. There’s her cousin, and
she were not possessed with a fury, exceeds her as much in beauty as the first of
May doth the last of December. But I hope you have no intent to turn husband, have
you?
Claudio  I would scarce trust myself, though I had sworn the contrary, if Hero would be my
wife.
b enedi Ck  ls’t come to this? In faith, hath not the world one man, but he will wear his cap with
suspicion? Shall I never see a bachelor of three score again? Go to, i’faith, and thou
wilt needs thrust thy neck into a yoke, wear the print of it, and sigh away Sundays.
PMT

10
(C720U10-1)© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
Henry V
Answer both 5 1  and 5 2  .
You are advised to spend about 20 minutes on 5 1  , and about 40 minutes on 5 2  .
5 1  Read the extract on the opposite page. Then answer the following question:
 Wha t does this extract show about the characters’ thoughts and feelings at this point in
the play? Refer closely to details from the extract to support your answer.  [15 ]
5 2  Henry V is a play about conflict. Write about how Shakespeare presents conflict at
different points in the play. [25]
 *5 of t his question’s marks are allocated for accuracy in spelling, punctuation and the
use of vocabulary and sentence structures.
*
PMT

(C720U10-1) Turn over.
11
© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
Can Te Rbu Ry  Never was such a sudden scholar made,
Never came reformation in a flood
With such a heady currance scouring faults,
Nor never Hydra-headed wilfulness
So soon did lose his seat, and all at once,
As in this king.
e ly   We ar e blessed in the change.
Can Te Rbu Ry  Hear him but reason in divinity,
And all-admiring, with an inward wish,
You would desire the king were made a prelate.
Hear him debate of commonwealth affairs,
You would say it hath been all in all his study.
List his discourse of war, and you shall hear
A fearful battle rendered you in music.
Turn him to any cause of policy,
The gordian knot of it he will unloose,
Familiar as his garter, that when he speaks
The air, a chartered libertine, is still,
And the mute wonder lurketh in men’s ears
To steal his sweet and honeyed sentences,
So that the art and practic part of life
Must be the mistress to this theoric.
Which is a wonder how his grace should glean it,
Since his addiction was to courses vain,
His companies unlettered, rude and shallow,
His hours filled up with riots, banquets, sports,
And never noted in him any study,
Any retirement, any sequestration
From open haunts and popularity.
e ly  The  strawberry grows underneath the nettle,
And wholesome berries thrive and ripen best
Neighboured by fruit of baser quality.
And so the prince obscured his contemplation
Under the veil of wildness, which, no doubt,
Grew like the summer grass fastest by night,
Unseen, yet crescive in his faculty.
PMT

12
(C720U10-1)© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
The Merchant of Venice
Answer both 6 1  and 6 2  .
You are advised to spend about 20 minutes on 6 1  , and about 40 minutes on 6 2  .
6 1  Read the extract on the opposite page. Then answer the following question:
 Loo k at how the characters speak and behave here. How do you think an audience
might respond to this part of the play? Refer closely to details from the extract to
support your answer. [15 ]
6 2  Write about Antonio and how he is presented in The Merchant of Venice. [25]
 *5 of t his question’s marks are allocated for accuracy in spelling, punctuation and the
use of vocabulary and sentence structure.
*
PMT

(C720U10-1) Turn over.
13
© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
Mo Ro CCo  One of these three contains her heavenly picture.
ls’t like that lead contains her? ’Twere damnation
To think so base a thought; it were too gross
To rib her cerecloth in the òbscure grave.
Or shall I think in silver she’s immured,
Being ten times undervalued to tried gold?
O sinful thought! Never so rich a gem
Was set in worse than gold. They have in England
A coin that bears the figure of an angel
Stampèd in gold; but that’s insculped upon:
But here an angel in a golden bed
Lies all within. Deliver me the key:
Here do I choose, and thrive I as I may.
p o RTia  There take it, prince, and if my form lie there,
Then I am yours.
  [Mo Ro CCo  unlocks the gold casket]
Mo Ro CCo   O hel l! What have we here?
A carrion death, within whose empty eye
There is a written scroll. I’ll read the writing.
 ‘Al l that glisters is not gold;
Often have you heard that told.
Many a man his life hath sold
But my outside to behold.
Gilded tombs do worms infold.
Had you been as wise as bold,
Young in limbs, in judgement old,
Your answer had not been inscrolled.
Fare you well, your suit is cold.’
 Col d indeed, and labour lost;
Then farewell heat, and welcome frost.
Portia, adieu; I have too grieved a heart
To take a tedious leave: thus losers part.
  Exi t [Mo Ro CCo  with his train]
p o RTia  A gent le riddance! Draw the curtains, go.
Let all of his complexion choose me so.
  Exeunt. [A flourish of cornets]
PMT

14
(C720U10-1)© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
SECTION B (Poetry)
The poems you have studied are:
The Manhunt by Simon Armitage
Sonnet 43 by Elizabeth Barrett Browning
London by William Blake
The Soldier by Rupert Brooke
She Walks in Beauty by Lord Byron
Living Space by Imtiaz Dharker
As Imperceptibly as Grief by Emily Dickinson
Cozy Apologia by Rita Dove
Valentine by Carol Ann Duffy
A Wife in London by Thomas Hardy
Death of a Naturalist by Seamus Heaney
Hawk Roosting by Ted Hughes
To Autumn by John Keats
Afternoons by Philip Larkin
Dulce et Decorum Est by Wilfred Owen
Ozymandias by Percy Bysshe Shelley
Mametz Wood by Owen Sheers
Excerpt from The Prelude by William Wordsworth
PMT

(C720U10-1) Turn over.
15
© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
SECTION B (Poetry)
Answer both 7 1  and 7 2  .
You are advised to spend about 20 minutes on 7 1  , and about 40 minutes on 7 2  .
7 1  Read the poem below, The Manhunt, by Simon Armitage.
 The Manhunt is a poem about a relationship. How does Simon Armitage present this
relationship in the poem? Refer to the contexts of the poem in your answer. [15 ]
The Manhunt
After the first phase,
after passionate nights and intimate days,
only then would he let me trace
the frozen river which ran through his face,
only then would he let me explore
the blown hinge of his lower jaw,
and handle and hold
the damaged, porcelain collar-bone,
and mind and attend
the fractured rudder of shoulder-blade,
and finger and thumb
the parachute silk of his punctured lung.
Only then could I bind the struts
and climb the rungs of his broken ribs,
and feel the hurt
of his grazed heart.
Skirting along,
only then could I picture the scan,
the foetus of metal beneath his chest
where the bullet had finally come to rest.
Then I widened the search,
traced the scarring back to its source
to a sweating, unexploded mine
buried deep in his mind, around which
every nerve in his body had tightened and closed.
Then, and only then, did I come close.
SIMON ARMITAGE
5
10
15
20
25
PMT

16
(C720U10-1)© WJEC CBAC Ltd.
7 2  Choose one other poem from the anthology in which the poet also writes about a
relationship.
 Com pare the way the poet presents the relationship in your chosen poem with the way
Simon Armitage presents the relationship in The Manhunt. [25]
 In yo ur answer to 7 2  you should:
 •  compare the content and structure of the poems – what they are about and how
they are organised
 •  compare how the writers create effects, using appropriate terminology where
relevant
 •  compare the contexts of the poems, and how these may have influenced the ideas
in them.
END OF PAPER
PMT
