=== PDF page 1 ===
WJEC Eduqas GCSE in
ENGLISH LANGUAGE
SPECIFICATION
Teaching from 2015 
For award from 2017
Version 3 January 2019
This Ofqual regulated qualiﬁcation is not available for
candidates in maintained schools and colleges in Wales.
ACCREDITED BY OFQUAL
GCSE

=== PDF page 2 ===
 
SUMMARY OF AMENDMENTS 
 
Version Description Page number 
2 Minor amendments to section 4.1 to clarify that: 
 
 Where a candidate re-sits the qualification, the grade for 
Component 3 may be carried over  
 Candidates who take an assessment in the November 
series must have reached at least the age of 16 on or 
before 31 August in the same calendar year. 
15 
3 'Making en tries' section has been amended to clarify resit 
rules and carry forward of NEA endorsement grade. 
 
15 
 
 
 

=== PDF page 3 ===


=== PDF page 4 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 1 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PDF page 5 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 2 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
 
Section A (20%) – Reading 
Understanding of one prose extract (about 60-100 lines) of 
literature from the 20th century assessed through a range of 
structured questions 
 
Section B (20%) – Prose Writing 
One creative writing task selected from a choice of four titles 
 
 
 
Section A (30%) – Reading  
Understanding of two extracts (about 900-1200 words in total) 
of high-quality non-fiction writing, one from the 19th century, 
the other from the 21st century, assessed through a range of 
structured questions 
 
Section B (30%) – Writing 
Two compulsory transactional/persuasive writing tasks 
 
 
 
One presentation/speech, including responses to questions 
and feedback 
 
Achievement in Spoken Language will be reported as part of 
the qualification, but it will not form part of the final mark and 
grade. 
 
 
 
This linear qualification will be available in the summer and November series each 
year.  It will be awarded for the first time in summer 2017. 
 
 
Qualification Accreditation Number: 601/4505/5 
 

=== PDF page 6 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 3 
 
 
 
The WJEC Eduqas GCSE in English language builds on the tradition and reputation 
WJEC has established for clear, reliable assessment supported by straightforward, 
accessible guidance and administration. 
 
In developing this specification, WJEC has been mindful to include the following 
features: 
 
 opportunities for flexible teaching approaches  
 questions and tasks designed to enable candidates to demonstrate what they 
know, understand and can do 
 straightforward wording of questions 
 accessibility of materials across the ability range 
 opportunities for breadth of study  
 use of ‘unseen’ material for analysis in external assessment 
 focused assessment of specific language skills 
 opportunities for producing extended writing 
 high-quality examination and resource materials. 
 
It enables learners to: 
 read a wide range of texts, fluently and with good understanding  
 read critically, and use knowledge gained from wide reading to inform and 
improve their own writing 
 write effectively and coherently using Standard English appropriately  
 use grammar correctly, punctuate and spell accurately  
 acquire and apply a wide vocabulary, alongside a knowledge and 
understanding of grammatical terminology,1 and linguistic conventions for 
reading, writing and spoken language.  
 
In addition, it enables learners to: 
 listen to and understand spoken language, and use spoken Standard 
English effectively. 
 
Spoken language will be reported on as part of the qualification, but it will not form 
part of the final mark and grade. 
 
In designing this specification, careful consideration of length of examination time and 
the number of question papers has ensured a balance between robust assessment and 
manageability. Varied question types and clear rubric aim to make this untiered 
assessment accessible to learners of different abilities. 
  
                                                
1 See also the glossary of grammatical terms that supports the national curriculum programmes of 
study for English. 

=== PDF page 7 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 4 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
A key aim of this specification is to encourage candidates to produce high-quality texts in 
their Writing responses. To help learners achieve this, WJEC’s assessment materials will 
ensure that high-quality texts will be studied as part of the Reading assessment.  These 
may be beneficial to learners as a model for their own writing. 
 
Regulatory requirements set out by the Department for Education and Ofqual state all 
GCSE in English language qualifications will: 
 
 be assessed by examination 
 have speaking skills assessed but this will not contribute to the overall grade. The 
assessment will be marked by teachers and reported separately, alongside the 
qualification grade on the certificate 
 include 20% of the marks for the written exams which will be allocated to 
accurate spelling, punctuation and grammar 
 be untiered 
 be fully linear with assessments available in the summer series and resit 
opportunities in the November series. 
 
This GCSE in English language encourages learners to read fluently and write 
effectively. Learners should be able to demonstrate a confident control of Standard 
English and they should be able to write grammatically correct sentences, deploy 
figurative language and analyse texts.  
 
 
 
There are no previous learning requirements for this specification. Any requirements 
set for entry to a course based on this specification are at the school/college’s 
discretion. 
 
This specification builds on subject content which is typically taught at key stage 3 
and provides a suitable foundation for the study of English Language at either AS or 
A level.  In addition, the specification provides a coherent, satisfying and worthwhile 
course of study for learners who do not progress to further study in this subject. 
 
  

=== PDF page 8 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 5 
 
 
 
This specification may be followed by any learner, irrespective of gender, ethnic, 
religious or cultural background.  It has been designed to avoid, where possible, 
features that could, without justification, make it more difficult for a learner to achieve 
because they have a particular protected characteristic.  
 
The protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010 are age, disability, gender 
reassignment, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex and sexual 
orientation. 
 
The specification has been discussed with groups who represent the interests of a 
diverse range of learners, and the specification will be kept under review.  
 
Reasonable adjustments are made for certain learners in order to enable them to 
access the assessments (e.g. application for extra time in a GCSE subject where 
extended writing is required).  Information on reasonable adjustments is found in the 
following document from the Joint Council for Qualifications (JCQ):  Access 
Arrangements, Reasonable Adjustments and Special Consideration:  General and 
Vocational Qualifications.  
 
This document is available on the JCQ website (www.jcq.org.uk).  As a consequence 
of provision for reasonable adjustments, very few learners will have a complete 
barrier to any part of the assessment.  
 
 
 
  

=== PDF page 9 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 6 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
The qualification is made up of two externally-assessed examination components 
and one internally assessed non-examination component.  The internally-assessed 
non-examination component tests spoken language skills.  Achievement in Spoken 
Language will be reported as part of the qualification, but it will not form part of the 
final mark and grade. 
 
There is a slightly heavier weighting on the non-fiction Reading and Writing in 
Component 2 than on the literature and creative writing in Component 1, in order to 
ensure that skills for work, life and further education are prioritised.  It is assumed 
that the majority of learners will also be following a GCSE in English literature and will 
therefore study a broad range of literature via that qualification.  
 
 
This specification sets out the full range of content for GCSE English language. 
Centres may, however, increase depth, breadth or context within the specified topics 
to consolidate teaching of the subject content. 
 
All texts in the examination will be ‘unseen’, that is, learners will not have studied 
them before.  These texts will be drawn from each of the 19th to 21st centuries, as 
specified below. 
 
GCSE English language is designed on the basis that learners should read and be 
assessed on high-quality, challenging texts from the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries.  
Each text studied in the classroom must represent a substantial piece of writing, 
making significant demands on learners in terms of content, structure and the quality 
of language.  The texts, across a range of genres and types, should support learners 
in developing their own writing by providing effective models.  The texts must include 
literature and extended literary non-fiction, and other writing such as essays, reviews 
and journalism (both printed and online). Texts that are essentially transient, such as 
instant news feeds, will not be used for examination purposes.  
 
 
The WJEC Eduqas GCSE specification in English language requires learners to 
study: 
 
 Critical reading and comprehension: identifying and interpreting themes, 
ideas and information in a range of literature and other high-quality writing; 
reading in different ways for different purposes, and comparing and 
evaluating the usefulness, relevance and presentation of content for these 
purposes; drawing inferences and justifying these with evidence; supporting 
a point of view by referring to evidence within the text; identifying bias and 
misuse of evidence, including distinguishing between statements that are 
supported by evidence and those that are not; reflecting critically and 
evaluatively on text, using the context of the text and drawing on knowledge 
and skills gained from wider reading; recognising the possibility of different 
responses to a text   
  

=== PDF page 10 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 7 
 
 Summary and synthesis: identifying the main theme or themes; summarising 
ideas and information from a single text; synthesising from more than one 
text  
 Evaluation of a writer’s choice of vocabulary, form, grammatical and 
structural features: explaining and illustrating how vocabulary and grammar 
contribute to effectiveness and impact, using linguistic and literary 
terminology accurately to do so and paying attention to detail; analysing and 
evaluating how form and structure contribute to the effectiveness and impact 
of a text    
 Comparing texts: comparing two or more texts critically with respect to the 
above. 
 
 Producing clear and coherent text: writing effectively for different purposes 
and audiences: to describe, narrate, explain, instruct, give and respond to 
information, and argue; selecting vocabulary, grammar, form, and structural 
and organisational features judiciously to reflect audience, purpose and 
context; using language imaginatively and creatively; using information 
provided by others to write (in different forms); maintaining a consistent point 
of view; maintaining coherence and consistency across a text 
 Writing for impact: selecting, organising and emphasising facts, ideas and 
key points; citing evidence and quotation effectively and pertinently to 
support views; creating emotional impact; using language creatively, 
imaginatively and persuasively, including rhetorical devices (such as 
rhetorical questions, antithesis, parenthesis). 
 
 Present information and ideas: selecting and organising information and 
ideas effectively and persuasively for prepared spoken presentations; 
planning effectively for different purposes and audiences; making 
presentations and speeches 
 Respond to spoken language: listening to and responding appropriately to 
any questions and feedback 
 Spoken Standard English: expressing ideas using Standard English 
whenever and wherever appropriate.  
 
  

=== PDF page 11 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 8 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
 
Section A (20%) – Reading  (40 marks) 
This section will test through structured questions the reading of an unseen extract from one 
20th century literary prose text (about 60-100 lines).  This section assesses AO1, AO2 and 
AO4. 
Section B (20%) – Prose Writing  (40 marks) 
This section will test creative prose writing through one 40-mark task.  Candidates will be 
offered a choice of four titles giving opportunities for writing to describe and narrate, and 
imaginative and creative use of language.  This response should be a narrative / recount. 
Candidates who write purely descriptively, or use a form other than that specified, such as 
poetry or drama, will not be able to access the full mark range as shown in the assessment 
criteria.  This section assesses AO5 and AO6. 
 
 
 
Section A (30%) – Reading (40 marks) 
This section will test through structured questions the reading of two high-quality unseen 
non-fiction texts (about 900-1200 words in total), one from the 19th century, the other from 
the 21st century.  Non-fiction texts may include, but will not be limited to: letters, extracts 
from autobiographies or biographies, diaries, reports, articles and digital and multi-modal 
texts of various kinds from newspapers and magazines, and the internet.  This section 
assesses AO1 (and 2), AO2, AO3 and AO4.  
Section B (30%) – Writing (40 marks) 
This section will test transactional, persuasive and/or discursive writing through two equally 
weighted compulsory tasks (20 marks each).  Across the two tasks candidates will be 
offered opportunities to write for a range of audiences and purposes, adapting style to form 
and to real-life contexts in, for example, letters, articles, reviews, speeches, etc.  This section 
assesses AO5 and AO6. 
 
  

=== PDF page 12 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 9 
 
 
 
 
Candidates will be required to complete one formal presentation or speech.  They will also 
be assessed on their responses to questions and feedback following the presentation or 
speech.  Standard English should be a feature of all parts of the candidates’ work in this 
component.  This component assesses AO7, AO8 and AO9. 
Achievement in Spoken Language will be reported as part of the qualification, but it 
will not form part of the final mark and grade. 
 
  

=== PDF page 13 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 10 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
Below are the assessment objectives for this qualification. 
 
 
AO1  Identify and interpret explicit and implicit information and ideas 
 Select and synthesise evidence from different texts 
AO2 
Explain, comment on analyse how writers use language and structure to achieve 
effects and influence readers, using relevant subject terminology to support their 
views 
AO3 Compare writers' ideas and perspectives, as well as how these are conveyed, 
across two or more texts 
AO4 Evaluate texts critically and support this with appropriate textual references  
AO5 
 Communicate clearly, effectively, and imaginatively, selecting and adapting 
tone, style and register for different forms, purposes and audiences 
 Organise information and ideas, using structural and grammatical features to 
support coherence and cohesion of texts 
AO6 
Candidates must use a range of vocabulary and sentence structures for clarity, 
purpose and eff ect, with accurate spelling and punctuation.  (This requirement 
must constitute 20% of the marks for each specification as a whole.) 
AO7 Demonstrate presentation skills in a formal setting 
AO8 Listen and respond appropriately to spoken language, including to questions and 
feedback to presentations 
AO9 Use spoken Standard English effectively in speeches and presentations. 
 
 
Please note, AO7, AO8 and AO9 are used to assess Spoken language which will be 
reported as part of the qualification, but it will not form part of the final mark and 
grade.  
  

=== PDF page 14 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 11 
 
The table below shows the weighting of each assessment objective for the 
qualification as a whole for all series. 
 
AO1 AO2 AO3 AO4 AO5 AO6 
 
10% 
 
20% 
 
7.5% 
 
12.5% 
 
30% 
 
20% 
 
Reading is assessed by AO1, AO2, AO3 and AO4.  This constitutes 50% of the 
qualification.  
 
Writing is assessed by AO5 and AO6.  This makes up the remaining 50% of the 
qualification. 
 
Spoken language is assessed by AO7, AO8 and AO9.  This assessment is 
unweighted in the qualification. 
 
 
SPOKEN LANGUAGE ENDORSEMENT FOR GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 
 
This endorsement will be reported as a separate grade (Pass, Merit, Distinction or 
Not Classified) and will not contribute to the result of the GCSE English Language 
qualification. 
 
This outline of the requirements has been produced in collaboration with all the 
relevant awarding bodies.  Further clarification will be available in the JCQ 
Instructions for conducting non-examination assessments. 
 
Tasks 
 
Candidates must undertake a prepared spoken presentation on a specific topic.  As a 
guide, the duration of the whole assessment should be no more than ten minutes.  
The key requirements are: 
 
 Presentations must be formal but may take a wide variety of forms, including 
talks, debates, speeches and dialogues. 
 
 Candidates must identify the subject for their presentations in advance and agree 
with their teacher. 
 
 Presentations must be planned and organised.  Candidates should be advised 
that lack of preparation is likely to prevent access to the criteria for the higher 
grades. 
 
 Candidates may use pre-prepared notes, PowerPoint etc to assist them during 
their presentations but this is not a requirement. 
 
 As part of, or following, the presentation, candidates must listen to and respond 
appropriately to questions and feedback. 
 
 Where the audience is the teacher only, the presentation and dialogue must be 
designed in such a way that it could have a potentially wider audience than just 
one person (e.g. it replicates a television interview). 
  

=== PDF page 15 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 12 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
Assessment 
 
No marks will be assigned to a candidate's performance - it will be assessed 
holistically as a grade, using a 'competency' basis on criteria which are provided on 
page 14. Competency means that a student must meet all the criteria in one grade 
before moving on to the next.  Candidates who do not reach the Pass standard must 
be recorded as Not Classified. 
 
Centres must make arrangements for internal standardisation of assessments.  This 
should take place as far as possible before assessment begins in earnest.  Internal 
standardisation should include a preliminary trial assessment session (including all 
teachers involved in assessment) using exemplar material provided by the awarding 
bodies, in order to ensure that there is a common understanding of the assessment 
criteria. 
 
Monitoring  
 
The endorsement will be assessed by centres.  Each centre is required to provide 
audio-visual recordings of the presentations of a sample of candidates (see below).  
These will allow us to check that centres have used appropriate tasks, and have 
applied the assessment criteria correctly and consistently. 
 
The centre must provide recordings of the presentations of a sample of candidates.  
The recording of each candidate's presentation, including questions and feedback 
from the audience, must be complete and unedited. 
 
Using their knowledge of candidates' likely performance, centres should select the 
sample following the guidance shown in the table below.  Centres are recommended 
to record slightly more than the minimum number at each grade to allow for 
candidates whose performance is awarded a higher or lower grade than the centre 
had anticipated.  WJEC will provide details regarding the storage and submission of 
recordings. 
 
 
Table 1 Sample Sizes  
 
No of 
candidates 
at centre 
No. of candidates whose 
presentations must be  
recorded 
Minimum no. of 
candidates at each 
grade 
 
(D, M, P) 
30 or fewer All candidates 10 
Over 30 30 10 
 
  

=== PDF page 16 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 13 
 
This is a broad overview of what is required. Further information on arrangements for 
learners with communication issues and / or hearing needs may be found in the 
appendices.  
 
If the awarding body has concerns as a result of monitoring, the centre will be 
provided with additional support (which may include a visit by a monitor) in the 
following academic year.  In exceptional circumstances there will be enhanced 
monitoring arrangements which may include an earlier deadline for submission of 
assessments or a requirement to record the presentations of all candidates. 
 
Candidate absence 
 
Where a candidate misses the scheduled date/time for his/her presentation, the 
centre must organise an alternative session. 
 
A candidate who is unable to undertake his/her presentation because of persistent 
absence (whether through ill health or any other reason) will not qualify for special 
consideration and will receive a 'Not Classified' result for the Spoken Language 
endorsement.  However, standard procedures for sitting at an alternative venue do 
apply, if appropriate. 
 
Entries and centre declaration 
 
Entries for GCSE English Language automatically include the Spoken Language 
endorsement. 
 
The head of centre is required to provide a written declaration to us by a published 
deadline to confirm that reasonable steps have been taken to ensure that all 
candidates whom the centre has entered for GCSE English Language have 
undertaken the Spoken Language endorsement. 
 
  

=== PDF page 17 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 14 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
Spoken Language Criteria for Pass, Merit and Distinction 
 
General criteria 
 
To be awarded a Pass, Merit or Distinction a Learner must – 
 
 be audible, and  
 use Spoken Standard English which, for the purpose of the spoken language 
assessment, means that a Learner must – 
 
 be intelligible, and 
 generally use language appropriate to the formal setting of the presentation. 
 
 
Pass Merit Distinction 
In addition to the general 
criteria, to be awarded a Pass 
a Learner's performance in 
his or her spoken language 
assessment must meet all of 
the following criteria – 
 
 
 expresses 
straightforward/ideas 
information/feelings,  
 
 
 
 makes an attempt to 
organise and structure his 
or her presentation, 
 
 
 
 
 makes an attempt to meet 
the needs of the 
audience, and  
 
 
 listens to 
questions/feedback and 
provides an appropriate 
response in a 
straightforward manner. 
 
In addition to the general 
criteria, to be awarded a Merit 
a Learner's performance in 
his or her spoken language 
assessment must meet all of 
the following criteria – 
 
 
 expresses challenging 
ideas/information/ feelings 
using a range of 
vocabulary, 
 
 
 organises and structures 
his or her presentation 
clearly and appropriately 
to meet the need of the 
audience, 
 
 
 achieves the purpose of 
his or her presentation, 
and 
 
 
 listens to 
questions/feedback 
responding formally and in 
some detail. 
 
In addition to the general 
criteria, to be awarded a 
Distinction a Learner's 
performance in his or her 
spoken language assessment 
must meet all of the following 
criteria – 
 
 expresses sophisticated 
ideas/information feelings 
using a sophisticated 
repertoire of vocabulary,  
 
 
 organises and structures 
his or her presentation 
using an effective range of 
strategies to engage the 
audience, 
 
 
 achieves the purpose of 
his or her presentation and 
 
 
 
 listens to 
questions/feedback, 
responds perceptively and 
if appropriate elaborates 
with further ideas and 
information. 
 
 
  

=== PDF page 18 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 15 
 
 
 
 
This is a linear qualification in which all assessments must be taken at the end of the 
course.  Assessment opportunities will be available in the summer and November 
series each year, until the end of the life of this specification. Summer 2017 will be 
the first assessment opportunity. 
 
A qualification may be taken more than once. Candidates must resit all examination 
components in the same series. 
 
The endorsement grade for NEA may be carried forward for the life of the 
specification, even if it was awarded by a different awarding body. If a candidate 
resits an NEA component (rather than carrying forward the previous NEA 
endorsement grade), it is the new grade that will be used, even if this is 'Not 
Classified'. 
 
Where a candidate has certificated on two or more previous occasions, the most 
recent NEA endorsement grade is carried forward, even if this is 'Not Classified'. 
 
Candidates who take an assessment in the November series must have reached at 
least the age of 16 on or before 31 August in the same calendar year as the 
assessment. 
 
The entry code appears below. 
 
WJEC Eduqas GCSE English Language:  C700QS 
 
The current edition of our Entry Procedures and Coding Information gives up-to-date 
entry procedures. 
 
 
 
GCSE qualifications are reported on a nine point scale from 1 to 9, where 9 is the 
highest grade. Results not attaining the minimum standard for the award will be 
reported as U (unclassified). 
 
 
 

=== PDF page 19 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 16 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 
 
 
Introduction 
 
 This document has been produced by the awarding bodies for England to support 
learners with communication and/or hearing needs in the Spoken Language 
Endorsement for GCSE English Language. It has been developed jointly with 
representatives from the British Association of Teachers of the Deaf, The 
Communication Trust, National Deaf Children's Society and the Royal National 
Institute of Blind People. It should be read in conjunction with the GCSE English 
Language specification from your awarding body and common assessment criteria.  
 
 The aim of this document is to encourage access to the Endorsement for as many 
learners as possible and provide practical guidance and support for their teachers. 
 
 This document focuses on the arrangements for the assessment element of the 
Spoken Language Endorsement. However, it is important to ensure that, throughout 
the GCSE course and particularly for learners with communication and/or hearing 
needs, there is continuing language development work that is over and above any of 
the requirements specifically related to the Endorsement. 
 
 Access to the Endorsement  
 
 For Heads of Centre the most important responsibility in relation to the Endorsement 
is to ensure that as many learners as possible are offered full access to the 
opportunities that the Endorsement will give. While exemption may be appropriate for 
some learners with protected characteristics (as defined in the Equality Act 2010), for 
most it will not be. In these latter cases it is the responsibility of the Head of Centre to 
ensure that all such learners have the opportunity to take the Endorsement. 
 
 Heads' responsibilities in this area will be supported in two main ways: 
 
 They will have to sign the annual Head of Centre declaration. 
 There will be an annual monitoring exercise undertaken by the awarding bodies 
to identify and understand patterns of centre behaviour where surprisingly large 
numbers of Exemptions/Not Classified results occurred. 
 
 Flexibility of the Requirements 
 
 To support full access, Ofqual's requirements for the Endorsement contain 
considerable flexibility around provision for individual learners. Of special interest to 
teachers of learners with communication and/or hearing needs are the following: 
 

=== PDF page 20 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 17 
 
 Format 
 
Various formats of presentation are allowed, including talks, debates, speeches and 
dialogues. The most common format in mainstream centres is likely to be the formal 
individual 'talk', in front of an audience followed by questions, but there are other 
ways in which learners can perform. Sample assessment materials, for example, 
show learners in an individual dialogic format, where they are interviewed by a 
teacher as part of a media type presentation.  
 
It is suggested that discussions are held with the learner and any specialist 
professional (e.g. speech and language therapist) and/or any specialist teachers (e.g. 
Teachers of the Deaf) to consider the most appropriate format. 
 
 The Requirement for Audibility and Intelligibility  
 
The Assessment Criteria require as a starting point that the learner should be audible 
and intelligible. The interpretation of 'audible' for the purposes of the endorsement 
means the learner is audible to the person undertaking the assessment and any 
audience present. Prompts can be given to encourage/remind the learner to speak 
louder. 
 
Some learners can only be clearly understood by peers and staff who have become 
accustomed to their speech. Therefore, 'intelligibility' for the purposes of this 
endorsement requires that the learner is intelligible to the person making the 
assessment, who will have become attuned to the learner's speech over time.  
 
 Presentation skills 
 
The Assessment Criteria refer to learners' 'making an attempt to meet the needs of 
the audience', which might be interpreted as including an assessment of their 
presentation skills. Assessors should be mindful of the possible impact of a disability 
such as vision impairment on a learner's body language and their ability to make eye 
contact with the audience. Where this may be a factor, assessment should be carried 
out by someone who is familiar with the learner and their individual needs.  
 
 Recording  
 
Not all learners have to be recorded. A sample of learners needs to be recorded, 
once the centre entry goes beyond 30, but the centre chooses the sample. 
Mainstream centres therefore do not need to record learners with communication 
and/or hearing needs if they do not want to. Specialist centres, with 30 or fewer 
learners, will still be able to apply to their awarding bodies for an exemption from 
recording for those learners where recording would be a significant problem.  
 
 Timings 
 
There are no time limits to the presentation (at either end of the time scale). 
Guidance will indicate that learners can do all that is necessary to access the highest 
attainment levels within a presentation of 10 minutes but, where more time is 
required, this is permissible. Guidance will also suggest that a very brief presentation 
will offer learners limited opportunities to demonstrate their skills. 
 
Pauses and rest periods are allowable - for instance between the presentation and 
questions. 

=== PDF page 21 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 18 
© WJEC CBAC Ltd. 
 Notes, aids, amplification systems 
 
Notes, PowerPoint, and visual aids are all permissible without restrictions on their 
content, length etc. Amplification systems, such as FM systems for deaf learners are 
permitted. 
 Acoustic and room layout 
 
It is important that all assessments for deaf learners (whether they have mild, 
moderate, severe or profound loss) take place in locations with an acceptable 
acoustic environment and with lighting good enough to facilitate speech/lip reading. 
In fact, this will be to the benefit of all candidates.  
 
Additionally, the seating arrangements/layout of the room are also very important for 
speech/lip reading, e.g. if a member of the audience, assessor or questioner has 
their back to a window, the deaf candidate will find it hard to speech/lip read. A 
suitably experienced professional (e.g. Teacher of the Deaf) should advise on 
appropriate layout and lighting. 
 
 Composition of Audience 
 
There is flexibility in the make-up and size of the presentation audience. An audience 
can be a whole class, a small group, or an individual teacher. It could also comprise 
older students, governors, teaching assistants, learning mentors etc. If the audience 
comprises one person, they must ensure that their questions allow the learners the 
opportunities to demonstrate their skills. Audience members are allowed to offer 
encouragement, prompts and support to a learner. It is permissible to ask a learner to 
speak up, repeat etc. 
 
 A Prompter 
 
A prompter could help a learner remember where they are up to their presentation, or 
remind them what they have just said.  
 
  
 Arrangements which require Awarding Body approval 
 
 Augmentative and alternative communication systems (AAC) 
 
If the learners use alternative communication devices as their normal method of 
communication, they can apply to the awarding body for permission to use this 
method for their presentation. 
 
 Sign Supported English or Cued Speech  
 
Sign Supported English (SSE) or Cued Speech can be used, during the presentation, 
or during the question stage to ensure that the learner is fully aware of the questions 
being asked.  
 
The use of Sign Supported English (SSE) or Cued Speech requires approval from 
the awarding body  
 
 British Sign Language 
 
Please note that British Sign Language is NOT allowed, as this is a distinct language 
in its own right and so is different from English. 

=== PDF page 22 ===
GCSE ENGLISH LANGUAGE 19 
 
 
 Conclusion 
 
 Awarding bodies hope that as many learners as possible will complete the Spoken 
Language Endorsement alongside their GCSE in English Language. Where there are 
issues which go beyond the scope of this document, please contact a specialist 
practitioner (e.g. a Teacher of the Deaf or Speech and Language Therapist) and/or 
your awarding body as appropriate for further advice.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GCSE Specification in English Language for teaching from 2015/HT 
11/05/2016 